Acceptable Use Policy Information ResourcesThe primary mission of Lee College is to provide quality instruction for its students.Through a variety of programs and services, Lee College prepares students for successin higher education or employment.
Lee College also provides a broad-based programof extension courses, adult education, community education and services.
It is thepolicy of Lee College District to apply the highest ethical standards to all members ofthe college community including the Board of Regents, administration, staff and facultyin achieving its mission and in managing its resources efficiently and effectively to reachits goals and objectives.Faculty, staff and student(hereinafter users) are expected to promote efficient useof network resources, consistent with the instructional, research, public service andadministrative goals of the College.
Refrain from engaging in any use that wouldinterfere with work or disrupt the intended use of network resources.
It is not responsibleto use disproportionate amounts of electronic resources.
Examples of disproportionateuses generally include activities such as serving MP3 music, streaming media at highbit rates or serving a multi-user game or host.Lee College relies heavily on networked computers and the data contained withinthose systems to achieve its missions.
Users are notified that electronic information isnot private and remains the property of Lee College.
This Acceptable Use Policy is toprotect these resources in accordance with the State of Texas laws, Federal laws andLee College Board Policy(See Board of Regents).
All users(administrators, faculty,students and visitors) granted access to Lee College Information Resources must followthe acceptable use policy below.Acceptable Use of College Information Resources Lee College Information Resources are provided for faculty, staff and students touse in the pursuit of the teaching, educational and service mission of the college. Lee College email is to be used to enhance and facilitate teaching, learning,scholarly research, support academic experiences and to facilitate the effectivebusiness and administrative processes of the College. Acceptable use of Lee College network resources should be used for electronicdissemination of information, including the establishment of web sites, publishingweb documents, and creating web applications as well as the distribution ofbulletins, memoranda, newsletters, reports, and committee communications;instructional use specifically to enhance communications between students andinstructors, facilitation of distance learning and support of Lee College scholarlyactivities; business and service activities of faculty and staff and uses as areconsistent with the traditional academic freedom accorded to faculty members. Administrative activities that are part of the support infrastructure needed forinstruction, scholarship, and institutional management of the member institutions. Research, scholarship, or instructional applications engaged in by students, facultyand staff.
Communication and exchange for professional development, to maintain currency,or to debate issues in a field or sub-field of knowledge. Applying for or administering grants or contracts for research or instruction. Fundraising, solicitation, or public relations activities related specifically to themission, strategic plan, and development of the institution. Announcements of new products or services used in research or in instruction. Administrative, academic, and research-related discussion groups on a wide varietyof topics. Users are expected to be knowledgeable of, and to perform their duties incompliance with, federal, state, and local laws and college policies, including theprovisions of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act designed to protect theconfidentiality of data and the privacy of individuals. Users are expected to access information that is needed in the context of theperformance of their normal duties and to exercise good judgment in the use ofsuch information.
In particular, confidential or demographic data, which pertains tostudents, employees, or college operations, must be used in a manner that protectsrights of privacy and limits personal and institutional liability.
In general, employeesare expected to avoid situations in which they either provide or interpret to othersinformation which is outside the scope of their expertise or job responsibilities.Data Protection Copyright All confidential information transmitted over external networks or saved on systemservers must be encrypted, must not be sent or forwarded through non-LeeCollege email accounts(like Hotmail, Yahoo mail, AOL mail, etc.
and must not beknowingly transmitted via wireless to or from a portable computing device unlessapproved wireless transmission protocols and security techniques are utilized. Users of Information systems must not attempt to access data or programscontained on systems for which they do not have authorization by the systemowner. Staff must not copy or reproduce any licensed software except as expresslypermitted by the software license, use unauthorized copies on college-ownedcomputers or use software known to cause problems on system computers(approval from the Office of Information Technology). Any critical Lee College data stored on Lee College workstations must be backedup in their home directory or external media in the event of a disaster or loss ofinformation. Users may not use the Internet for activity prohibited by federal law.
Some materialon the Internet may be protected by federal copyright laws(see generally Title 17,United State Code). Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of copyrighted materials is illegal, exceptas permitted by the principles of fair use. Generally, fair use of copyright materialsis limited to copies made for personal use, private study, scholarship, or research.If the use of copyrighted material does not fall within fair use, permission fromthe copyright holder to use the material must be obtained before any such use.If in doubt about whether or not your use may infringe on material protected by acopyright, ask the copyright owner for permission to use the protected material.
Exchanging digital copies of music files, often in the.mp3 format, has becomepopular.
Posting on the network, or in any other way(streaming server) exchangingcopies of songs from commercial music CDs is illegal. Students should be aware that certain aspects of their privacy relating to academicrecords are governed by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act(FERPA).Details of that law are available in the Lee College Catalog.
Refer to the followinglink: http://www.lee.edu/catalog.asp.Virus Protection All computers connecting to the Lee College network must run current site-licensedvirus prevention software. Centrally provided virus protection software must be run on all computersconnected to the Lee College network. With the exception of installation of software, or other special circumstance orprocedure that requires the temporary disabling of virus prevention software, suchsoftware must not be disabled or bypassed. If deemed necessary to prevent viral propagation to other networked devices ordetrimental effects to the network, computers infected with viruses or other forms ofmalicious code shall be disconnected from the network until the infection has beenremoved. Users must perform regular backups.
Virus infections often destroy data on anindividual s computer.
Without proper backups, recovery of destroyed files may beimpossible. Periodically check your computer and be certain that the virus protection softwareis running correctly and that system security patches are applied.
OIT regularlyremotely downloads up-to-date security patches(DATs) to computers that are ableto accept the update.Email The following email activities are prohibited by policy:#Using email for purposes of political lobbying or campaigning.#Posing as anyone other than oneself when sending email.#Reading another User s email unless authorized to do so by the owner of theemail#Using email software that poses high security risks to Lee College InformationResources.#Sending unsolicited messages, except as required to conduct Lee Collegebusiness.#Sending excessively large messages or attachments unless for office Collegebusiness.#Sending or forwarding email that is likely to contain computer viruses. Email messages may not include any user s identification number(e.g., socialsecurity number), should include only unique identifying information that is pertinentto the message being conveyed and should not reference any student s academicrecord or confidential employee information. Altering electronic communications to hide one s identity or to impersonate anotherindividual is considered misrepresentation and/or forgery and is prohibited under
this policy.
All email, news posts, chat sessions, or any other form of electroniccommunication must contain the sender s real name and/or email address. Initiating or forwarding chain letters or email is prohibited on the college emailsystems and the Internet as a whole.
Chain emails can be identified by phrasessuch as please pass this on to your friends or similar inducements that encourageyou to forward the message. User should avoid opening messages or attachments received from unknownsenders or responding to instant messages or other peer to peer technologies fromstrangers.
Messages and attachments can carry viruses.
IM(instant-messagingand peer to peer technologies) are often used by intruders with malicious intent.Non-business-related instant-messaging should be avoided. Address messages to recipients who need to know.
Messages sent unnecessarilyto a long list of recipient s lowers system performance. You may not be paid, or otherwise profit, from the use of any college-providedcomputing resource or from any output produced using
You may not promoteany commercial activity using college resources.
Use of email for profit-makingactivities(sales or distribution of commercial products or services for profit, etc.
including product advertisement and mass-mailings or use by for-profit companiesis unacceptable unless otherwise authorized by the president of Lee College. The use of email or any college system for harassment or criminal activity mayresult in criminal penalties, including fines and imprisonment.Use of Information Resources Storage of any non-work related email messages; voice messages, files anddocuments within the Lee College email system must be nominal(less than 5percent of a user s allocated mailbox space) unless stored on the hard drive orexternal media. Use of personal software and hardware on college computers is prohibited withoutauthorization by the Director of Information Technology.
Software is subjectto licensing and all license provisions(including copyright, use, duplication,simultaneous use, etc.)
must be honored. Non-work related files may not be stored on network file servers. Any files, messages or documents residing on Lee College computers may besubject to public information requests and may be accessed in accordance with thispolicy. Commercial network resources and software that are licensed by Lee College forinternal use only may not be used outside the College network.Internet Use Users shall not use the Internet connection to perform any act that may beconstrued as illegal or unethical, including attempting to gain unauthorized accessto the network. To ensure the best overall network performance, network traffic will be monitored.OIT will take appropriate action if any computer causes traffic problems thatinterfere with the business of the Lee College.
If, in the course of monitoringnetwork traffic, information that may have adverse legal implications for LeeCollege is discovered, it will be reported.
Neither personal nor commercial advertising may be posted on Lee Collegewebsites. Users shall not engage in activities that relate to material involving the sexualexploitation of minors as defined by Federal Code Title 18, Part I, Chapter 110,Sexual Exploitation and other abuse of children or other criminal acts.Portable and Remote Computing All computers and/or portable-computing devices using Lee College InformationResources must be password protected and be changed when prompted accordingto password authentication policy timeline of every 90 days or if the password issuspected of being compromised. Employees accessing the Lee College network from a remote computer mustadhere to all policies that apply to use from within Lee College facilities, mustconform to the IT minimum standards for portable computing, and are subjectto the same rules and security related requirements that apply to college ownedcomputers. All hardware that connects to the Lee College network must be installed by certifiedOffice of Technology technicians and network administrators.Passwords Lee College account(s), passwords, personal identification numbers(PINs),security tokens( e., Smartcards), or similar information or devices used foridentification and authorization purposes must not be shared and are non-transferable.
Owners are responsible for all usage of their assigned accounts,usernames and passwords. Digital certificate passwords used for digital signatures must never be divulged toanyone. Users must not circumvent password entry through use of auto login, application remember password features, embedded scripts or hard-coded passwordsin client software.
Exceptions may be made for specific applications(such asautomated backups) with the approval of the Lee College Office of InformationTechnology director.
Any exception situation must include a procedure to changethe passwords and must adhere to security policies for password construction. Users may not attempt to evade, disable, or crack passwords or other securityprovisions.
These activities threaten the work of others and are grounds forimmediate disciplinary action.
Unauthorized copying of files or passwordsbelonging to others or to the college may constitute plagiarism or theft.
Modifyingfiles without authorization(including altering information, introducing viruses orTrojan horses, or damaging files) is unethical, may be illegal, and can lead todisciplinary action. Users must establish appropriate passwords, change them as required and nevershare them with others.Telephone Long-Distance Access Code Users shall not tap phone/data lines or accessing files by circumventing securityrestrictions.
Each individual who is authorized by a division/department to place long distancecalls for Lee College business will be issued an individual authorization code whichcan be used to place calls from Lee College phones. Telephone services and wiring may not be modified or extended beyond the area oftheir intended use. Unauthorized use of an individual s telephone extension number or voice mailboxand any attempt to gain access to a voice mailbox other than your own isprohibited.
Voice mailbox passwords should never be exchanged. Users are not permitted to accept collect calls, arrange for third party billing to theircampus telephone extension or place operator assisted calls that result in a chargeto the college.
Any campus telephone extension determined to be accepting ormaking such calls will be subject to a fine plus the cost of the call(s). Attempting to place a billable call from any college telephone without paying for theservice may constitute theft.
Telecommunications will levy a fine for investigationplus the cost of the telephone call(s).CyberSecurity Security programs or utilities that reveal or exploit weaknesses in the security of asystem or that reveal data by circumventing established authorization proceduresand systems should not be downloaded and/or used, except as authorized by theOIT.
For example, password cracking programs, packet sniffers, wireless hubsor port scanners on Lee College Information Resources shall not be used.
Usersmust report any identified weaknesses in Lee College computer security andany incidents of possible misuse or violation of this agreement to the director ofInformation Technology. Due to the open and decentralized design of the Internet and networked computersystems, Lee College cannot protect individuals against the receipt of material thatmay be offensive to them.
Likewise, individuals who use email or those who makeinformation about themselves public on the Internet should know that Lee Collegecannot protect them from invasions of privacy.
It is recommended that users utilizethe network only for business related activities of the college. Do not download and/or use tools that are normally used to assess security orto attack computer systems or networks( e.
password crackers, vulnerabilityscanners, network sniffers, etc.)
unless you have been specifically authorized to doso by T. Each user is responsible for the security of any system he/she connects to thenetwork.
A system seen to be attacking other systems, e.g.
having fallen victim toviruses/worms, will be taken off the network, generally without notice, until it hasbeen made secure. Users may not operate network services from their computers(BBS, Chat, DHCP,DNS, anonymous FTP, IRC, NNTP, POP2/POP3, SMTP, etc.).
Users who have abona fide academic need to operate such services must obtain written authorizationfrom the OIT Director prior to activating any such service. Users may not conduct port scans on the campus network, or of outside networksfrom the campus network, may not operate Ethernet cards in promiscuous mode,or use any IP address on the campus network other than those assigned by theCollege.
Lee College network services and wiring may not be modified or extended.
Thisapplies to network wiring, hardware, and in-room jacks.
Use of Ethernet switches,network hubs, or wireless networking technology on the campus network isexpressly prohibited and can impose unnecessary security vulnerability on thenetwork. A computer owned personally by a student, faculty member or staff memberis subject to College policy while it connects to the College network directly orthrough a dial-up connection.
An individual may not grant access privileges to otherindividuals on a computer in violation of the general eligibility policy below, evenif that computer is personally owned.
If a computer is connected to the Collegenetwork, access from that computer to the rest of the campus network can only bemade available to individuals otherwise authorized to use the campus network.
Thisincludes email, Web services, file transfer, Internet Relay Chat(IRC), telnet, andany other network traffic. The installation of any type of device that allows the sharing of a single IP addressby multiple devices compromises the operation of the network and must notoccur.
This includes proxy servers, personal routers or any other type of networkequipment.
It is expected that each end-user device will be configured with a singleregistered IP address from the campus Network Operations Center. The College is bound by its contractual and license agreements respecting certainthird party resources; you are expected to comply with all such agreements whenusing such resources.Your Rights and Responsibilities As a member of the Lee College community, the college provides you with the useof scholarly and/or work-related tools, including access to the Library, to certaincomputer systems, servers, software and databases, to the campus telephoneand voice mail systems, and to the Internet.
You have a reasonable expectationof unobstructed use of these tools, of certain degrees of privacy(which may varydepending on whether you are a college employee or student), and of protectionfrom abuse and intrusion by others sharing these resources.
You can expect yourright to access information and to express your opinion to be protected as it is forpaper and other forms of non-electronic communication. In turn, you are responsible for knowing the regulations and policies of the Collegethat apply to appropriate use of the College s technologies and resources.
You areresponsible for exercising good judgment in the use of the College s technologicaland information resources.
Just because an action is technically possible does notmean that it is appropriate to perform that action. As a representative of the Lee College community, you are expected to respect theCollege good name in your electronic dealings with those outside the College.Violations of AUP Users are expected to notify the Office of Information Technology, classroominstructor, lab supervisor, or other responsible party, as appropriate, of intentionalor unintentional breaches in access and data security of which they becomeaware.
In addition, employees who are aware of serious violations of acceptableuse or related policies and procedures(including malicious tampering, virus
infection, spyware, phishing or hacking) are required to report such activity to theirimmediate supervisors. Policies and guidelines are established to maximize the educational benefit realizedfrom the considerable investment of resources necessary to operate and maintainthese facilities. Users who violate the policy shall be subject to disciplinary action including, but notlimited to, written warnings, suspension without pay, or dismissal in accordancewith the applicable provisions of the appropriate policy. In addition, if a user s conduct violates federal or state laws, the user may besubject to prosecution under such laws. Lee College reserves the right to investigate suspected violations using all meansavailable. Any abuse of Lee College WAN by students, faculty, administrators or staff shouldbe reported to IT. Users should be aware that the computer systems are the property of the Collegeand email messages, Internet usage, and other computer files are subject toreview at the discretion of Lee College.
In the case of harassment complaints,illegal violations, or a system problem hardware, software, or attacks byhackers the IT staff is authorized to review any information or files necessaryto investigate complaints or solve the systems problems to protect the systemsand the information they contain.
In this situation, the staff is obligated to treat anyinformation they might see that turns out to be unrelated to the problem as strictlyconfidential.
In addition, email messages may be subject to subpoena or otherwisediscoverable in litigation. Users should follow local, state, and federal laws and regulations pertainingto computing activities.
In cases involving fraud, forgery, extortion, copyright,intimidation, humiliation, etc., violators may be legally prosecuted and will besubject to immediate loss of all computing privileges at Lee College. Attempt to alter or obscure your identity or your computer s identity, including butnot limited to IP address and email address, while communicating on any network. Attempts to alter system software, to bypass security protocols, to introduceviruses, worms, or other malicious or destructive programs, or otherwise to hack are expressly forbidden.
Any member of the Lee College community, includingstudents, who intentionally breaches security, will be subject to disciplinary action,including suspension and dismissal and legal proceedings. The College District reserves the right to conduct searches when the CollegeDistrict has reasonable cause to believe that a search will uncover evidence ofwork-related misconduct.
The College District may search the employee, theemployee s personal items, work areas, lockers and private vehicles parked onCollege District premises or work sites or used in College District business.
Workareas include technology equipment provide by the college such as computersand peripherals, servers, laptops, PDAs and telephones/cell phones.
