Oral Roberts University iPad Acceptable Use Policy All iPads remain property of Oral Roberts University and are subject to the same acceptable use guidelines as all other university provided electronic devices.
All applications(apps), files and documents stored on the iPad are the property of Oral Roberts University.
TAKING CARE OF YOUR IPAD Faculty/Staff are encouraged to purchase protective covers/cases for their iPads.
The iPad screen is made of glass and therefore is subject to cracking and breaking if misused.
Never drop nor place heavy objects(books, laptops, etc.)
on top of the iPad.
Only a soft cloth or approved laptop screen cleaning solution is to be used to clean the iPad s screen.
To extend battery life, faculty/staff should always turn off and secure their iPad after work is completed.
Do not subject the iPad to extreme heat or cold(do not store in vehicles).
iPads that are broken or fail to work properly must be taken to the IServices Office for an evaluation of the equipment.
General Precautions The iPad is university property and all users will follow this policy and the ORU acceptable use policy for technology.
Cords and cables must be inserted carefully into the iPad to prevent damage.
iPads must never be left in an unlocked room/office, unlocked car,or any unsupervised area The whereabouts of the iPad should be known at all times.
It is Faculty/Staff responsibility to keep their iPad safe and secure.
iPads must have a screen lock password set to prevent possible data vulnerabilities for the university in case it is lost or misplaced.
Syncing the iPad to iTunes should be done regularly.
Doing so will safeguard all files, documents, and apps and prevent data loss.
iPad Acceptable Use Policy The iPad is subject to routine monitoring by the technology staff.
The ORU IT Department will periodically monitor iPad wireless activity.
If the acceptable use policy is violated, the iPad may be remotely locked down, wiped, and/or confiscated.
Prohibited Uses Include: Accessing Inappropriate Materials - All material on the iPad must adhere to the values and mission of ORU.
Faculty/Staff must abide by the same prohibited uses as the use of computers and laptops.
Faculty/Staff are not allowed to send, access, upload, download, or distribute offensive, profane, threatening, pornographic, obscene, or sexually explicit materials.
Proxy sites are also prohibited.
Illegal Activities - Use of the University s internet/E-mail accounts for financial or commercial gain or for any illegal activity is prohibited.
Violating Copyrights Faculty/Staff are allowed to have music and install apps on their iPad
However the items downloaded and synced to the iPad must be in compliance with Federal copyright laws.
Cameras - Faculty/Staff must use good judgment and follow the predefined ORU rules of conduct when using the camera.
The Faculty/Staff agrees that the camera will not be used to take inappropriate, illicit or sexually explicit photographs or videos.
Misuse of Passwords/Unauthorized Access The sharing of passwords with other faculty/staff members is prohibited.
Malicious Use/Vandalism - Any attempt to destroy hardware, software or data is prohibited.
Jailbreaking Jailbreaking is the process of removing any limitations placed on the iPad by Apple.
Once jailbroken, users are able to download additional applications, extensions and themes that are not otherwise available.
Jailbreaking results in a less secure device and is strictly prohibited.
Faculty/Staff Responsibilities are to: Use computers/iPad in a responsible and ethical manner.
Use all technology resources in an appropriate manner so as to not damage university equipment.
Damage includes, but is not limited to, the loss of data resulting from delays, non-deliveries, or service interruptions caused by negligence, errors or omissions.
Use of any information obtained outside of ORU s designated Internet System is at your own risk.
Help ORU protect our computer system/device by contacting an administrator about any security problems they may encounter.
Monitor all activity on their account(s).
Turn off and secure their iPad after they are finished working to protect their work and information.

Lost/Stolen/Broken iPads: In the event an iPad is lost, stolen or damaged you are to immediately notify the IT department.
IT will take the necessary precautions to remotely wipe the ORU information from the device.
Additionally, it is the faculty/staff member s responsibility to replace the device based on the following proration methodology: year old: 50% of the original purchase price years old: 25% of the original purchase price years old: 10% of the original purchase price
