The use of these resources must be consistent with the goals of the University.
As a all users are expected to act responsibly and follow all applicable laws, guidelines, policies, and procedures when utilizing campus property and resources.
The University's Acceptable Use Policy includes the following guidelines that apply to all university community members and guests, including members of the Abbey, faculty, students, and staff:
otherwise evading or disabling security restrictions is grounds for immediate disciplinary action.

Hardware changes, software installations, and system modification is to be done by authorized personnel only.
Such restrictions are designed to ensure integrity and readiness of use.

Obtaining and distributing illegally shared content using peer-to-peer file sharing is prohibited.
The University is obligated by federal law to vigorously pursue copyright infringement claims.

Certain personal devices and device behaviors interfesake of fairness, broadcasting devices such as wireless hotspots, routers, and other networking equipment must remain unplugged and turned off at all times.
Devices with wireless sharing capabilities must have those features disabled.
Such devices include: wireless printers, smart televisions, phone hotspots, and streaming devices such as Roku and Chromecast.
Devices that do not comply are monitored, located, and addressed by ITS for the sake of the University.

Posting or transmitting abusive, explicit, or unwanted material is unacceptable.
Targeting a person, group, or organization to cause distress, injury, unwanted attention, or discomfort is harassment, and will not be tolerated.

Distribution of improper advertising, soliciting, chain letters, hoax emails, and pyramid schemes will not be tolerated except when permitted by non-conflicting law in designated areas.
Issues concerning these guidelines, allegations of harassment, or misuse of resources should be brought to the attention of Integrated Technology Service or the Office of Human Resources as soon as possible.
688-2222 or Help@stmartin.edu.
