Purpose & Introduction 1.1 The purpose of the SUNY Maritime Colleges Acceptable Use of Computing, Networking and Communications Resources Policy is to provide guidance and protection for all students, faculty, staff, guests and affiliates of the college community.
The intent of this policy is to protect the SUNY Maritime College community from illegal, damaging or harassing actions by individuals, either knowingly or unknowingly.
Inappropriate use of computing, networking and communications resources exposes SUNY Maritime College to risks including, but not limited to, virus attacks, compromise of network systems and services, and legal issues.
This policy supersedes all former policies regarding acceptable and/or unacceptable use of SUNY Maritime Colleges computing, networking and communications resources.
Services include, but are not limited to, SUNY Maritime Colleges provided email system, Internet(e.g.
wireless & wired), communications(ie.
fax machines & cell phones), data, hardware, equipment(e.g.
laptops, desktops, tablets, photocopiers & scanners), websites, software and networking resources.
SUNY Maritime Colleges computing, networking and communications resources are provided to support an individual memb essential work as outlined in their job description, educational and work related duties.
Any other use is a privilege of resources and is not a right of the individual.
Individuals are responsible for their own actions and by their use of SUNY Maritime Colleges computing, networking and communications resources they agree to comply with the policy.
This policy applies to all persons accessing or using college technology resources as described in section 1.3.

Acceptable Use 2.1 While using SUNY Maritimes computing, networking and communications resources, all members of the SUNY Maritime College community are expected to abide by all state and federal laws, as well as SUNY-System and SUNY Maritime College policies and regulations.
Acceptable use of any computing, networking and communications resources provided by SUNY Maritime College is that use which strictly serves the mission of the College.
Any other use is considered an unacceptable use of resources.
SUNY Maritime Colleges computing, networking and communications resources are for the use of its students, faculty, staff and guests and are only provided for the academic, educational, business and approved research purposes of the College.
It is recognized that on occasion, the incidental or personal use of SUNY Maritime Colleges computing, networking and communications resources might occur.
This incidental or personal use of resources is acceptable only when it does not interfere with official and educational duties, does not
inhibit the security of information and information systems, does not cause degradation of network services, or does not impact or affect any part of section and subsections.
Personal use is not allowed in instances where that use could cross or be perceived to cross the official duties of the employee, or make a confusing or false representation about the process or actions of the college and administration.
System users are responsible for exercising good judgment and sound ethical consideration regarding the use of SUNY Maritime Colleges computing, networking and communications resources.

Unacceptable Use/Enforcement and Consequence of Violation 3.1 Any action, be it indirect or direct, which violates section of SUNY Maritime Colleges, Acceptable Use of Computing, Networking and Communications Resources Policy is considered an unacceptable use.
Anyone covered by this policy found to have violated this policy may be subject to disciplinary action, written or verbal warnings, recovery of damages, suspension, termination, and/or referral to appropriate state and federal authorities for investigation.
Any use of SUNY Maritime Colleges computing, networking and communications resources, as defined in section 1.3, that is inappropriate to the work or educational environment or that contributes to creating a harassing or uncomfortable workplace is declared an unacceptable use.
In addition, any distributing, transmitting, posting, accessing, or storing of any electronic communications, material or correspondence that is threatening, obscene, harassing, pornographic, offensive, defamatory, discriminatory, inflammatory, illegal, or intentionally false or inaccurate is declared an unacceptable use.
SUNY Maritime College reserves the right to limit access, block or make restrictions for any resource that does not support the academic mission and business purpose of the College.
Except as specifically authorized by law, individuals have no legitimate expectation of privacy during any use of SUNY Maritime Colleges computing, networking and communications resources or in any data on it, even if a private password is issued or use of encryption is made.
Any use, whether authorized or not, may be monitored, intercepted, recorded, read, copied, accessed or captured in any manner including in real time, and used or disclosed in any manner, by authorized personnel without additional prior notice to individuals.
Periodic monitoring of systems use will be conducted.

Requests for exceptions must be made and approved in writing.

I further acknowledge that I must comply with this policy and failure to abide by this policy can result in revocation of resources, disciplinary action, written or verbal warnings, recovery of damages, suspension, termination, and/or referral to appropriate state and federal authorities for investigation.
