Acceptable Use - Policies - University of Florida Information Technologyhttp://www.it.ufl.edu/policies/aupolicy.html[5/28/2010 11:55:40 AM] Last revised: 9/17/07(Links updated)To report violations, please contactabuse@ufl.edu.For questions concerning this policy,please contact: Computing andNetwork Services or the Office of theGeneral Counsel.Acceptable Use of Computing Resources PolicyIntroductionAs part of its educational mission, the University of Florida acquires, develops, and maintainscomputers, computer systems and networks.
These computing resources are intended foruniversity-related purposes, including direct and indirect support of the university's instruction,research and service missions; university administrative functions; student and campus lifeactivities; and the free exchange of ideas within the university community and among theuniversity community and the wider local, national, and world communities.This policy applies to all users of university computing resources, whether affiliated with theuniversity or not, and to all uses of those resources, whether on campus or from remotelocations.
Additional policies may govern specific computers, computer systems or networks provided or operated by specific units of theuniversity.
Consult the operators or managers of the specific computer, computer system, or network that you are interested in for furtherinformation.
This policy may be modified as deemed appropriate by the University.
Users are encouraged to periodically review the policy asposted on the university's home page.
Rights & ResponsibilitiesThe rights of academic freedom and freedom of expression apply to the use of university computing resources.
So too, however, do theresponsibilities and limitations associated with those rights.
The university supports a campus and computing environment open to the freeexpression of ideas, including unpopular points of view.
However, the use of university computing resources, like the use of other university-provided resources and activities, is subject to the requirements of legal and ethical behavior.
Thus, legitimate use of a computer, computersystem or network does not extend to whatever is technically possible.General RulesUsers of university computing resources must comply with federal and state laws, university rules and policies, and the terms of applicablecontracts including software licenses while using university computing resources.
Examples of applicable laws, rules and policies include thelaws of libel, privacy, copyright, trademark, obscenity and child pornography; the Florida Computer Crimes Act, the ElectronicCommunications Privacy Act and the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, which prohibit "hacking," "cracking" and similar activities; the university'sStudent Code of Conduct; the university's Sexual Harassment Policy.
Users who engage in electronic communications with persons in otherstates or countries or on other systems or networks may also be subject to the laws of those jurisdictions and the rules and policies of thoseother systems and networks.
Users with questions as to how the various laws, rules and resolutions may apply to a particular use of universitycomputing resources should contact the Office of the General Counsel for more information.Users are responsible for ascertaining what authorizations are necessary and for obtaining them before using university computing resources.Users are responsible for any activity originating from their accounts which they can reasonably be expected to control.
Accounts andpasswords may not, under any circumstances, be used by persons other than those to whom they have been assigned by the accountadministrator.
In cases when unauthorized use of accounts or resources is detected or suspected, the account owner should change thepassword and report the incident to the appropriate account administrator, Unit Information Security Manager, and/or Dean, Director, orDepartment Chair.Although there is no set bandwidth, disk space, CPU time, or other limit applicable to all uses of university computing resources, the universitymay require users of those resources to limit or refrain from specific uses if, in the opinion of the system administrator, such use interfereswith the efficient operations of the system.HomeCIO OfficeUnitsGovernancePoliciesProjectsCommunityIT Policies
Acceptable Use - Policies - University of Florida Information Technologyhttp://www.it.ufl.edu/policies/aupolicy.html[5/28/2010 11:55:40 AM]Users may not state or imply that they speak on behalf of the university or use university trademarks and logos without authorization to doso.
Authorization to use university trademarks and logos on university computing resources may be granted only by the Office of UniversityRelations or University Athletic Association.
The use of appropriate disclaimers is encouraged.
For further guidelines on the use of theuniversity's marks, name and image, please refer to UF's Graphical Standards Policy.Users must not use computing resources to gain unauthorized access to remote computers or to impair or damage the operations of UFcomputers or networks, terminals or peripherals.
This includes blocking communication lines, intercepting or sniffing communications, andrunning, installing or sharing virus programs.
Deliberate attempts to circumvent data protection or other security measures are not allowed.EnforcementUsers who violate this policy may be denied access to university computing resources and may be subject to other penalties and disciplinaryaction, including possible expulsion or dismissal.
Alleged violations will be handled through the university disciplinary procedures applicable tothe user.
The university may suspend, block or restrict access to an account, independent of such procedures, when it reasonably appearsnecessary to do so in order to protect the integrity, security, or functionality of university or other computing resources or to protect theuniversity from liability.
The university may also refer suspected violations of applicable law to appropriate law enforcement agencies.Security & PrivacyThe university employs various measures to protect the security of its computing resources and its user's accounts.
Users should be aware,however, that the university cannot guarantee security and confidentiality.
Users should therefore engage in "safe computing" practices byestablishing appropriate access restrictions for their accounts, guarding their passwords and changing them regularly.Users should also be aware that their uses of university computing resources are not completely private.
While the university does notroutinely monitor individual usage of its computing resources, the normal operation and maintenance of the university's computing resourcesrequire the backup and caching of data and communications, the logging of activity, the monitoring of general usage patterns and other suchactivities that are necessary for the provision of service.
The university may also specifically monitor the activity and accounts of individualusers of university computing resources, including individual login sessions and the content of individual communications, without notice,when:The user has voluntarily made them accessible to the public, as by posting to Usenet or a Web page;It reasonably appears necessary to do so to protect the integrity, security, or functionality of university or other computing resources orto protect the university from liability;There is reasonable cause to believe that the user has violated or is violating this policy;An account appears to be engaged in unusual or unusually excessive activity; or it is otherwise required or permitted by law.Any such monitoring of communications, other than what is made accessible by the user, required by law, or necessary to respond toperceived emergency situations, must be authorized in advance by the appropriate Vice President or the Chief Information Officer inconsultation with the Office of the General Counsel.
The university, in its discretion, may disclose the results of any such general or individualmonitoring, including the contents and records of individual communications, to appropriate university personnel or law enforcement agenciesand may use those results in appropriate university disciplinary proceedings.
Communications made by means of university computingresources are also generally subject to the Florida Public Records Law to the same extent as they would be if made on paper.Visitors to UF Web sites who are not currently UF students, faculty or staff should refer to the university's Internet Privacy Policy for privacyinformation.E-MailFor purposes of this document, e-mail includes point-to-point messages, postings to newsgroups and listserves and any electronic messaginginvolving computers and computer networks.
Organizational e-mail accounts, including those used by student organizations, are held to thesame standards as those for individual use by members of the University of Florida community.
E-mail is also generally subject to the FloridaPublic Records Law to the same extent as it would be on paper.GatorLink email is the official email account for students.
The GatorLink policy can be found at http://www.gatorlink.ufl.edu/policy.html.Examples of Inappropriate Uses of E-mail: While not an exhaustive list, the following uses of e-mail by individuals or organizations areconsidered inappropriate and unacceptable at the University of Florida.
In general, e-mail shall not be used for the initiation or re-transmissionof:Chain mail that misuses or disrupts resources - E-mail sent repeatedly from user to user, with requests to send to others;Harassing or hate-mail - Any threatening or abusive e-mail sent to individuals or organizations that violates university rules andregulations or the Code of Student Conduct;Virus hoaxes;
Acceptable Use - Policies - University of Florida Information Technologyhttp://www.it.ufl.edu/policies/aupolicy.html[5/28/2010 11:55:40 AM]Spamming or e-mail bombing attacks - Intentional e-mail transmissions that disrupt normal e-mail service;Junk mail - Unsolicited e-mail that is not related to university business and is sent without a reasonable expectation that the recipientwould welcome receiving it; andFalse identification - Any actions that defraud another or misrepresent or fail to accurately identity the sender.Commercial UseComputing resources are not to be used for personal commercial purposes or for personal financial or other gain.
Occasional personal use ofuniversity computing resources for other purposes is permitted when it does not consume a significant amount of those resources, does notinterfere with the performance of the user's job or other university responsibilities, and is otherwise in compliance with this policy.
Furtherlimits may be imposed upon personal use in accordance with normal supervisory procedures concerning the use of University equipment.Web PagesOfficial university pages(including colleges, departments, bureaus, centers, institutes, etc.)
represent the university and are intended for theofficial business functions of the university.
Each official home page must use an address that ends in "ufl.edu" and be registered with theuniversity's Web administrator who will then include it as a link from the UF Web Site Listing.
For more information on the ufl.edu domain,please refer to the UF Domain Name Policy).
The following information must be readily accessible on the main page:The name of the unit or group represented by the page;A means of contacting the person(s) responsible for maintaining the page content;The date of last revision; The university wordmark; andAn active link to the UF home page.For more information on including the university's wordmark on a Web page, please refer to the UF Graphical Standards Policy.
For helpfinding a wordmark suitable for a particular Web site, UF's Web Administration maintains a set of official Web graphics.Personal web space is provided for Gatorlink account holders at http://help.gatorlink.ufl.edu/webser html.Employee pages represent the individual in his or her primary role as a UF employee.
Incidental personal information on employee pages isdeemed acceptable so long as it does not interfere with the function or desired presentation of the unit, cause disruption of normal service,incur significant cost to the university or result in excessive use of resources.
Faculty and staff who wish to publish substantial personalinformation not related to their University functions should use an Internet service provider rather than using university Web resources.Organizational and other pages represent recognized organizations, clubs, associations, sororities, fraternities, workgroups and committeesaffiliated with the university.Commercial PagesUsing UF Web pages for personal gain is forbidden.
Any private commercial use of UF Web pages must be pre-approved pursuant to existinguniversity policies and procedures regarding outside employment activities.
The university may require pages involving commercial use toreside on a specific domain such as ufl.org or ufl.com.
All UF units that accept payment electronically via the Internet are required to processall sales transactions through the Office of Finance and Administration Web payment gateway(IPAY).
Refer to the E-Commerce Security andManagement Policy for more information.
For advertising, Web page authors should be familiar with the university's policies regardingAdvertising on University Webspace and Recognizing Corporate Supporters on the Web.External LinksUF accepts no responsibility for the content of pages or graphics that are linked from UF pages.
However, Web page authors should considerthat such links, even when clearly labeled, can be misinterpreted as being associated with the University.
Links to pages where you have apersonal monetary interest are likely to violate policies regarding advertising and commercial use and should be avoided.Excessive or Disruptive UseExcessive or disruptive use of university resources in the viewing or publishing of Web pages is not permitted.
Units owning or administeringthe resources involved will determine whether specific usage is considered normal, excessive or disruptive.Retention PeriodsRetention periods must be followed for all official university Web pages as required by the Florida Public Records Law.
Official university Webpages are treated like e-mail and subject to the same guidelines set forth in the UF E-mail as Public Records Policy.Network Infrastructure/RoutingUsers must not attempt to implement their own network infrastructure.
This includes, but is not limited to basic network devices such as hubs,
Privacy PolicyWebmaster - webmaster@ufl.edu | UF Help Desk -(352) 392-HELP(4357)This page was last updated December 11, 2009.This page uses Google Analytics(Google Privacy Policy)switches, routers, network firewalls, and wireless access points.
Users must not offer alternate methods of access to UF IT resources such asmodems and virtual private networks(VPNs).
Users must not offer network infrastructure services such as DHCP and DNS.
Exceptions to thispolicy must be coordinated with Network Services and the local network administrator.WirelessFor the purposes of this document, we refer only to wireless transmission using radio frequency(RF).
Wireless is shared media and easilyintercepted by a third party.
Wireless users are encouraged to use some type of encryption.
WIPA provides authentication and access to theinternet from UF wireless connections, but it doesn't provide encryption.
Use of the UF VPN is encouraged to encrypt wireless communication.Improperly configured wireless access points(WAPs) might cause denial of service to legitimate wireless users.
WAPs can also be used tosubvert security.
Wireless access points must be authorized by Network Services and the local network administrator.
Information about UFwireless access can be found at http://net-services.ufl.edu/provided_services/wireless/.
For authorization to deploy wireless in the area ofShands Hospital and the Health Science Center, contact Shands Customer Support Group or HealthNet.Virtual Private Network(VPN)A VPN provides secure encrypted access between a client and the VPN server.
They are most commonly used for secure access to a trustednetwork from remote, untrusted networks.VPN servers must be authorized by Network Services and the local network administrator.
Information about the UF VPN can be found athttp://net-services.ufl.edu/provided_services/vpn/.
For authorization and answers to your questions about VPN access to the Health ScienceCenter, contact your local LAN administrator.
For authorization and answers to your questions about VPN access to Shands, contact theWebmaster.
