Network registration is the process of placing your computer into the firewall zone appropriate for your level of responsibility.
To provide complete security, it is required that all computers connected to the campus wired network must be registered on the network.
If your computer was purchased and installed through Bradley University's Campus Computer Sales, the registration process will be completed for you.
You may be asked to register your computer occasionally in order to provide asset management information.
Employee systems are placed in the highest security level, the "working" zone of the firewall.
Computer labs and public use computers and printers will be placed in the "learning" zone, with access appropriate for the academic environment.
Wireless Networks Bradley University offers wireless networking for students, faculty, staff and guests.
Wireless networking is by nature a shared medium, and inherently less secure than traditional wired networking.
If you need high speed connectivity and high capacity a wired connection is recommended.
All users of the Bradley University network must conform to the policies indicated in the IRT Acceptable Network Usage Policy.
Upon connecting to the network, you agree to adhere to additional standards.
Violation of any of these standards may result in your immediate disconnection from network services.
Wireless Access FAQs Dorm Access Point Guides With Cradle Without Cradle Wireless Network Connection Following are instructions for using BUsecure, the encrypted wireless network on campus, BUguest, Bradley's guest wireless network for the campus community and guests and information regarding BUsponsored, Bradley's wireless network for groups and visitors on campus for an extended period of time.
Connecting to BUsecure Student, faculty and staff network connection instructions.
Provides authenticated, encrypted access Requires a BUnetID BUsecure Instructions Connecting to BUguest Campus guest network connection instructions.
Provides basic access to the World Wide Web(http, https) and VPN Guest accounts expire after a period of time BUguest Instructions Connecting to BUsponsored For groups and visitors on campus for an extended stay or those who require more access than http, https and VPN.
Requests are to be sent in writing to BUSponsored Request include name of sponsor(must be a university employee), contact number of sponsor, account duration(start and ending dates), name of individual requesting account Submit request at least business days in advance of date access needed row end BASIC PAGE SECTION FOOTER Apply Visit Give container end social media row Information For Prospective Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Parents Alumni end footer 1st col Getting Around A - Z index Campus Map Parking Visit Information end footer 2nd col Public Safety Emergency Police Department Hilltop Safety Cruiser end footer 3rd col Campus Tools Bmail FSmail Canvas MyBU Directory end footer 4th col Phone(309) 676-7611 Email webmaster@bradley.edu Location 1501 W Bradley Ave | Peoria, IL 61625 Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn end footer 5th col end container for links(309) 676-7611 webmaster@bradley.edu 1501 W Bradley Ave | Peoria, IL 61625 Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn container hidden-md visible-xs-block visible-sm-block text-center row row-color-charcoal 2021 Bradley University | Accessibility | Privacy Policy | Non-Discrimination Statement | Consumer Information | Student Complaint Resolution | IBHE Online Complaint System end FOOTER
