Find out more in our Privacy Notice.
Questions, please contact dataprivacy@clayton.edu.
Thanks for letting me know Skip to Content Skip to Footer COVID-19 Information / #mobileLogo /.navbar-top-wrapper Brand and toggle get grouped for better mobile display Toggle navigation /.navbar-header /.contentWidth / #logo Students Faculty & Staff Directory Giving Apply Computer and Network Acceptable Use Policy Computer and Network Acceptable Use Policy Toggle navigation Computer and Network Acceptable Use Policy Purpose This document defines the campus policy for the acceptable use of Clayton State University s(CSU) computing resources used by faculty, students, staff and guests.
Modifications, corrections, exceptions, or changes to this policy may only be made by the Vice President for Information Technology and Services, with approval from the President of the University.
The following guidelines are intended to clarify existing laws, agreements, and regulations.
Privacy Users will preserve the privacy of information belonging to other individuals that is stored using CSU computing resources.
Users agree not to acquire, modify, or distribute any information belonging to another individual without explicit permission.
Users recognize that CSU is subject to FERPA(Buckley Amendment) regulations regarding the privacy of student records and that CSU is funded and regulated by the State of Georgia and is therefore subject to the Georgia Open Records Act.
Private gain Users agree not to utilize computing resources owned, leased, or maintained by CSU for personal private financial gain.
Damage Users will not cause intentional damage to computer systems and will assume full responsibility for any loss, damage, or destruction of such devices that is caused by negligence, misuse, abuse, or carelessness.
The campus network is a shared campus resource, and all Clayton State students, faculty, staff, and guests agree to keep any smartphone, tablet, laptop, workstation, server, or other device that connects to LakerNet: patched with the latest update for their operating system run a current antivirus package(the Hub can install LANDesk Anti-Virus at no charge), run a personal or host-based firewall(the Hub can configure the firewall built into Windows.
Inappropriate Behavior Users agree not to take any actions that constitute inappropriate behavior including, but not limited to the following: Intentionally infecting network servers or other computers with a virus Connecting networking equipment including, but not limited to servers, routers, hubs and switches, and wireless access points to the campus network without written authorization from the Office of Information Technology and Services Sending harassing messages to other computer users either at CSU or through external networks Using inappropriate, offensive, or abusive language to other users within the CSU network, or through external networks Tampering with or modifying accessed equipment Causing intentional damage to computer systems Obtaining additional resources not authorized to the individual user Depriving other users of authorized resources Acquiring access to unauthorized systems Utilizing another user s account and password Broadcasting non-business related email to CSU faculty, staff and students(including but not limited to For Rent/Sale and personal notes to the campus) Broadcasting unsolicited email and e-mail that is in violation of the CAN-SPAM act of 2003 Licenses and Restrictions Users must abide by patent and/or copyright restrictions that relate to the use of computer facilities, products, files, programs, or documentation.
Users may not copy or modify licensed software, files, and/or accompanying materials without expressed consent.
Users may not use any computing resources belonging to Clayton State University for the purpose of violating terms of any software license agreement or any applicable local, state, or federal laws.
Appropriate Use of Information Technology It is against state policy to create, access or transmit material considered sexually explicit, pornographic, discriminatory, offensive, threatening, harassing or intimidating.
Violation of Policy Users understand that any violation of this policy may call for corrective action as deemed necessary by the employee s supervisor, department head, or Vice President.
Policy violation by students will be addressed by Student Judicial Affairs.
Violators may be subject to local, state and/or federal prosecution.
Definitions Computing Resources For the purpose of this document, the phrase computing resources includes, but is not limited to, computers, files, networks, electronic mail, and Internet access, that is owned, leased, and/or maintained by CSU.
User User is any person who utilizes CSU owned or leased computing resources, including, but not limited to faculty, staff, students, temporary employees, and contract labor.
The user is responsible for the conduct of any person that the user allows to use CSU computing resources.
Acceptable use Acceptable use refers to the use of computing resources, as outlined in this document, in a manner consistent with Clayton State's mission for education, research and service.
