Internet Access Internet network traffic is prioritized based on the academic needs of the College.
You may not use C-N network resources for purposes clearly outside the scope of the college s Christian standards and mission statement, such as accessing inappropriate Internet sites.
Internet traffic is both monitored and logged.
Hubs, switches, and routers Personal wireless access points are not allowed.
Network hubs or other types of network devices not approved by Information Technology are not allowed.
Wired Academic and Administrative networks C-N employs a technology known as port security on wired administrative and academic networks accessed by college-managed and trusted computers.
Port security provides full network access to each trusted network device.
Unauthorized network devices connected to the network will be unable to access network resources.
Wired Residential networks As with the wireless network(see below), all wired residential networks are routed through the NAC Appliance system.
CN-Eagles Wireless network C-N s wireless network is accessible campus-wide.
Wireless network connections are routed through the NAC Appliance system.
This system requires authentication of the user and security posture assessment of the attached computer.
Each authorized C-N user can have a single NAC Appliance session active at one time.
New wiring requests To facilitate departmentally requested network wiring additions, IT will abide by the following procedure: Requesting department will notify C-N IT of the need.
C-N IT will determine if there is sufficient network infrastructure available to fulfill the request.
If not, IT will initiate procurement of necessary equipment.
C-N IT will define the project specifications and either: Request a quote from C-N maintenance, or Provide an estimate for the installation The requesting department will generate a C-N purchase order for the project requirements.
C-N IT will coordinate with the requesting department and C-N maintenance until the project s completion.
