Technology Acceptable Use Policy | Daemen College Skip to main content 11.15.2021 Coronavirus(COVID-19) Information & Updates Get the most recent official updates from Daemen.
Access to Daemen Information Technology resources is a privilege and not a right.
It is expected that all faculty, staff, students, guests, and visitors will be ethical and responsible in their use of Daemen technology, and all will comply with this Acceptable Use Policy.
All users must comply with federal, state, and local laws as well as Daemen College policies.
Inappropriate use of Daemen Information Technology resources can result in disciplinary action, including revoking the privilege to use these resources.
The misuse of Daemen Information Technology resources includes, but is not limited to: Use of College computing facilities for commercial activity or personal financial gain.
Use of College computing facilities for any illegal activity, including violation of U.S. copyright law.
Illegal reproduction of software may be subject to civil damages and criminal penalties including fines and imprisonment.
Posting on or transmitting through any network unlawful, harmful, threatening, abusive, harassing, defamatory, vulgar, obscene, profane, hateful, racially, ethnically, or otherwise objectionable material, including, but not limited to, material which encourages conduct that would constitute a criminal offense, gives rise to civil liability or otherwise violates any applicable municipal, provincial, federal, or international law.
Wasteful use of finite system resources.
Wasteful use includes, but is not limited to, excessive or unnecessary printing, excessive forwarding of electronic email, or using an excessive amount of bandwidth.
Connecting unauthorized equipment to the campus network including personal network switches, routers, wireless access points, servers, or any other device that may have a negative effect on network performance.
Vandalism or alteration of computer hardware or software belonging to the College.
Unauthorized access or alteration of files, databases, or accounts of other users.
The College makes no warranty as to the suitability of the provided facilities or equipment for any particular purpose.
The College accepts no responsibility for loss of service or the loss of data resulting from a loss of service.
Users are responsible for backing up their own work.
The College reserves the right to audit all Daemen accounts at any time to ensure compliance with Daemen policies and procedures.
Daemen accounts and electronic files may also be subject to search under court order.
Accounts on College servers are issued to individual users, and are not transferable.
The person to whom an account is granted is responsible for all use of that account.
Sharing an account or password is not permitted, and users are required to take reasonable steps to ensure the security of their account.
Making computing resources available to non-authorized users in any other manner is not permitted.
All College faculty, staff, and student employees are required to abide by the College s Confidentiality Agreement.
Suspected violations of this Acceptable Use Policy should be reported to infosec@daemen.edu.
