The browser you are using is not currently supported for the new www.fandm.edu.
Please consider upgrading your browser or switching to Google Chrome.
Those users who violate this policy are subject to the range of sanctions set forth in the College Life Manual and Student Code, Human Resource and College policies, as well as any applicable local, state, and federal laws.
The College Infrastructure Committee reserves the right to modify this policy at any point in time, without notice to users.
Audience This policy applies to all members of the F&M community, which includes employees, students, faculty, emeriti faculty, visitors, volunteers, third parties, alumni, contractors, consultants, clients, temporaries, and others(collectively known as "users"), who have access to, support, administer, manage, or maintain F&M information and technology assets.
Policy Maintenance The College Infrastructure Committee will review this policy on an annual basis.
All revisions will be presented to the Chief Information Officer(CIO) and Chief Information Security Officer(CISO) for approval.
Policy Statement Access to information and technology assets provided by the College is a privilege granted to the members of the College community.
These assets are to be used for the activities for which they were designed.
The College also recognizes that local, state, and federal laws relating to copyright, information security, and intellectual property are applicable to all members of the College community.
The College reserves the right to limit or restrict computing privileges and access to its information and technology assets without notice.
Privacy While the College respects an individual's use of computing resources, it should be noted that there are no facilities provided for sending, receiving, storing, or otherwise manipulating private messages, information, or files and there should be no expectation of privacy when using the College s network or systems.
On occasion, situations arise and scenarios occur that may require access to information stored within College systems.
This may be prompted, for example, by legal action, health or safety concerns, or by urgent College business needs.
Access may be provided with the approval of the following College officer.
Risks that users accept when accessing the Internet include: Lack of confidentiality and/or integrity of information accessed, sent, or received.
No privacy protections.
Web site operators and other third parties collecting, storing, and sharing information about users who visit their sites or use their services.
Email Accounts All College email accounts and all data transferred or stored using the College s email system are the property of the College and are considered College records.
College email accounts: are to be used solely for College-related activities and business.
are not to be used to create or sign in to any third-party service that has not been provisioned by the College, unless these services are being used exclusively on behalf of the College.
Personal email accounts( e, email accounts not provided by the College): are prohibited from being used for official College business.
are encouraged to be used with personal services such as social media or online shopping.
Inappropriate Use of Email Sending inappropriate email that violates any College policy is prohibited.
Users receiving inappropriate email should immediately contact the ITS Help Desk at 717-358-6789 or helpdesk@fandm.edu.
In the case of serious risk or potential harm, users should contact the Office of Public Safety at 717-358-3939 immediately.
Selected examples of inappropriate use include: harassing, obscene, or threatening messages the unauthorized exchange of sensitive or confidential data sending non-College sanctioned advertisements, solicitations, or chain letters sending malware or a message which is intended to mislead the recipient into performing an action misrepresenting the identity of the sender of a message using or attempting to use the accounts of others without their permission Network Access The College reserves the right to determine the information security level of any non-College owned or non-College managed systems that connect to the College network or systems.
A baseline level of security must be met before being granted access to the College network.
Users are responsible for their personally owned devices while they are connected to College information resources.
The College also reserves the right to block software, applications, sites, or services that are determined to be malicious or negatively impact network performance or are commonly used for copyright infringement.
Conflicting Network Services Users may not connect systems to the College network which emulate, spoof, replicate, or interfere with existing information technology services provided by the College.
Some contracted services, College network tenants, shared services organizations, etc., may inquire for exemption to this Conflicting Network Services section by contacting the ITS department before installing any software, systems, or equipment and receiving written permission.
User Prohibitions User accounts or user device access or services may be suspended: for actions negatively impacting any College provided information or technology asset.
for obstructing others from accessing College resources.
for violating College licensing or contractual agreements.
Users are prohibited from: Distributing copyrighted material such as images, music, software, movies, electronic books, journals, or any other digital content for which the user does not have appropriate rights.
Storing information for or producing physical items that could be considered weapons of any kind.
Using College resources to offer goods or services of a commercial nature not sanctioned by the College.
User Agreement I agree to the obligations described above and agree not to use F&M's information and technology assets in any way that diminishes the effectiveness of those assets or interferes with the reasonable and individual use of those systems by others.
I acknowledge the right of Franklin & Marshall College, and its designated staff, to inspect, when necessary as a function of responsible system management, all files stored or data transmitted through the College s information and technology assets.
I understand that upon violation of the terms of this agreement, the College retains the right to deny current and future computing privileges.
I understand that I may also be subject to further disciplinary action by the College and/or legal action arising from the violation of any federal, state, or local laws.
Box 3003, Lancaster, PA 17604-3003 717-358-3911 Lux et Lex We use cookies to enhance our website and improve your browsing experience.
To accept cookies click the "I Understand" button, or view our privacy page for more information.
