Network Network Students Employees Visitors EDURoam FAQ Select your role Official FIU SSIDs FIU_SECUREWiFi is an encrypted and secure connection to the Internet FIU_WiFi is an unencrypted and unsecured connection to the Internet Managed by the Division of Information Technology Students / Faculty / Staff Laptops, Phones, Tablets Logging into FIU_SECUREWiFi: Select FIU_SECUREWiFi from the list of networks on your device Enter your FIU credentials(Username is the first part of your email eg., roary001) Accept any certificates if prompted.
For additional information please visit our FAQ Windows OS X Linux Gaming Consoles, eReaders, Media Streamers These devices usually do not support our secure wireless connection, instead they must connect to FIU_WiF
You must register these devices at my.fiu.edu before you can connect them to the internet.
To register your device on my.fiu.edu and connect to FIU_WiFi: Log into my.fiu.edu with your username and password Select Device Registration from the menu on the left.
Follow the instructions on the page, and register your device's MAC Address, along with a description of the device.
After you have registered your device, turn it on and try to connect to FIU_WiFi Visitors Basic internet access is offered to FIU visitors and guests via the FIU_WiFi SSID.
Visitors must read and accept our Acceptable Use Policy in order to connect to the internet.
FIU is also participating in the eduroam(education roaming) initiative.
If you are a student of a participating university, you may log into the eduroam SSID using the username and password from your home university(eg.
roary@miam edu) Connecting as an FIU visitor: Connect to the network labeled FIU_WiF
Your browser should automatically redirect to our guest portal(pictured).
Not automatically redirected?
You can trigger the redirection by browsing to an HTTP site such as http://network.fiu.edu Read the terms of use and accept by clicking "connect".
Please note that guest access is only granted on a daily basis.
Additional information can be found on our AskIT KB Article For additional support, please contact our Support Center by using our Online Service Request System, AskIT, or by calling 305.348.2284.
EduRoam eduroam(education roaming) is the secure, world-wide roaming access service developed for the international research and education community.
eduroam allows students, researchers and staff from participating institutions to obtain Internet connectivity across campus and when visiting other participating institutions by simply opening their laptop.
Logging into eduroam: Select eduroam from the list of networks on your device Enter your institution credentials.
Username is usually your full email address eg., roary001@fiu.edu) Accept any certificates if prompted.
For additional information please visit our FAQ Windows OS X Linux Frequently Asked Questions How do I connect to the FIU s wireless networks?
For instructions for FIU students, faculty, staff, and alumni, click here.
For visitors, click here.
If you are attending a conference at any of FIU s campuses, click here.
I am an FIU student, faculty, staff member, or alumn
What is my username and password?
In order to get access to FIU_SECUREWiFi you will need to login with your MyAccounts username/password.
If you do not know your MyAccounts credentials, select the FIU_WiFi wireless network and visit myaccounts.fiu.edu on your browser.
I am an FIU student, faculty, staff member, or alumn
Do I have to authenticate each time I log on to FIU_SECUREWiFi?
No, you will only be prompted once to authenticate unless your MyAccounts password has changed or expired.
What devices are not supported by FIU_SECUREWiFi?
eBook Readers(Amazon Kindle, Barnes & Noble Nook), gaming consoles(PlayStation, Xbox 360, W, and some wireless printers are not supported through the FIU_SECUREWiFi wireless network and will need to login to FIU_WiFi, which is for wireless devices that require a different authentication method.
I'm having difficulty connecting to the FIU_SECUREWiFi with my Google Chromebook, Android and devices running Linux and or Windows
How can I connect to the FIU_SECUREWiFi?
If you are experiencing difficulty connecting to FIU_SECUREWIFI with your device, further instructions can be found at Our Support Page Is FIU an eduroam-affiliated institution?
Yes, FIU participates in eduroam(education roaming), a free world-wide service that provides instant, authenticated and encrypted network access to all participating universities.
Eduroam will allow all students, faculty, and staff to access Wi-Fi networks from participating institutions with their FIU email address and their MyAccounts password.
Will I have to login through Clean Access to connect to FIU_SECUREWiFi?
No, the Clean Access agent is no longer available.
I have Clean Access installed on my device.
What do I do with it?
You can choose to either uninstall or leave it as is, the Clean Access agent will remain dormant on your computer.
For additional support or information about FIU's wireless network, please contact our Support Center by using our Online Service Request System, PantherChat, or by calling 305.348.2284.
It consists of four technology organizational units, including University Technology Services(UTS), the IT Security Office(ITSO), the Center for Internet Augmented Research and Assessment(CIARA) and the Office of the CIO.
