This information will be included in a link at the bottom of this page for viewers to send comments and concerns.
For questions about this call or e-mail Gloria Foltz.
Thank you!
Definitions: Information Technology Resource: Any technology system, equipment, facility or service provided to users by George Fox University.
Purpose: George Fox University maintains electronic systems and networks to support the academic and administrative mission of the University.
These systems may contain or access sensitive data and may be be critical resources in the ongoing continuity of University functions.
As such, use of these resources is a privilege which necessitates responsible and acceptable use.
This document provides a broad outline for the Acceptable Use of George Fox University systems, networks and data.
Policy: The primary purpose of Information Technology Resources is to serve the stated mission of the University.
All other uses will be considered secondary to this purpose.
All use of Information Technology Resources will be governed by expectations set in any of the following documents: Employee Handbook Faculty Handbook Undergraduate Student Handbook University Standards of Conduct All Information Technology Resources provided by the University are considered property of the University unless ownership has been otherwise transferred in writing.
The University recognizes that Information Technology Resources may be appropriately and occasionally used by University employees for incidental personal use.
Incidental personal use of University Information Technology Resources may be allowed when such use: Does not interfere with University operations; Does not compromise the functioning of the University's systems or networks; Does not interfere with the user's employment or other obligations to the University; Does not constitute a violation of any University or externally mandated data protection standards; Is not used for the purposes of personal economic gain or political purposes; Is not an activity that would jeopardize the tax-exempt status of the University.
Users of University systems must comply with all federal, state, and local laws.
The viewing, storing or accessing illegal content is not permitted.
Downloading or disseminating copyrighted materials outside the provisions of fair use or without the permission of the copyright holder is prohibited.
Illegally obtained material may include, but is not limited to, music, movies, games, software, etc.
Illegal use of peer-to-peer networking or other file-sharing technology is prohibited and may subject the User to civil or criminal penalties beyond penalties for violation of University policy.
The University reserves the right to monitor and/or block peer-to-peer or other file-sharing protocols to ensure compliance with the Higher Education Opportunity Act(HEOA) and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act(DMCA) Users will not access or attempt to access computer systems using University Information Technology Resources, including those external to the University, without authorization by the owner of that system.
This includes: Use of username and/or password issued to another person Any attempts involving the forging or misrepresentation of an individual or University identity The University and the Institutional Technology department reserve the right to manage, monitor, suspend or revoke some or all technology use in order to protect the confidentiality, accessibility and integrity of University Information Technology Resources or when warranted as part of disciplinary action.
University access to Information Technology Resources will only be approved by specific personnel when there is a valid reason to access those resources.
Authority to access such data can only come from Chief Information Officer in conjunction with requests and/or approvals from senior members of the University.
External law enforcement agencies may request access to files through valid subpoenas and other legally binding requests.
Information obtained in this manner can be admissible in legal proceedings.
The University may suspend or revoke access to Information Technology Resources in order to stop or contain a suspected Information Security Incident.
The University may enforce this Acceptable Use Policy and other policies against any violations including University disciplinary actions according to University policies governing employee and student conduct(e.g., probation, suspension, termination, or expulsion) or in conjunction with civil suits, criminal investigations, or criminal prosecutions.
End of default Start of after_default End of after_default End of main-content Start of after_main End of after_main Start of after_main_fullWidth End of after_main_fullWidth Start of breadcrumbs George Fox University / Offices and Services / Acceptable Use Policy End of breadcrumbs End of main Extended navigation.
School address.
All rights reserved.
