Acceptable Use of Information Technology Resources Policy University Policies Cookie Policy googleoff: all By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Statement, and our Website Terms of Use.
Accordingly, the University encourages and promotes the use of these resources by the University community, within institutional priorities and financial capabilities.
Access to, and use of, these resources and services are privileges which must be accepted in strict compliance with all applicable laws and with the highest standards of ethical and professional behavior.
Purpose The purpose of this policy is to guide all users in the acceptable use of IT resources at McNeese State University.
Definition IT resources at McNeese State University include, but are not limited to, the following: Computers and mobile devices Network infrastructure, both wired and wireless Software Physical facilities Data communications systems and services Support personnel Scope This policy applies to anyone utilizing McNeese IT resources, whether affiliated with the University or not.
This policy is applicable to all users regardless of the following: Ownership(University or personally owned computer or device) Location(on or off campus) Method of connectivity(wired or wireless) Policy User Responsibilities: Users must abide by all federal, state, and local laws Users must abide by all applicable copyright laws and may be held personally liable for any infractions Users must abide by all license agreements including legal restrictions of use and copying Use of IT resources for the purpose of lobbying that connotes university involvement or endorsement of any political candidate or ballot initiative is not permitted Use of IT resources for personal commercial purposes or for personal economic gain is not permitted Use of IT resources to gain unauthorized access to anything is not permitted Disruptive use of University IT resources is not permitted Users may not manipulate or augment the University network infrastructure without prior approval Users may not intentionally damage, or render useless, any equipment, software, or data Users shall only use equipment, accounts, passwords, and services for which they have authorization Users shall not allow unauthorized users to access IT resources, which includes sharing login credentials for any accounts for which they have authorization Users are reminded that use of IT resources may not materially and substantially disrupt university functions or another university member s use of technology resources, or violate the law Policy Administration The University does not generally monitor or limit access to the campus network.
However, it reserves the right to monitor, access, and review information under certain conditions such as a court order, subpoena, or other legally enforceable discovery request.
The University may suspend, block, or restrict access to an account when it appears necessary to do so Communications made concerning University business are subject to Louisiana Public Records Law and retention requirements.
Individual units within the University may define additional conditions for acceptable use of resources under their control which are consistent with this policy statement, and which may provide additional detail, guidelines, and restrictions.
Internet Monitoring and Filtering Website Monitoring The Office of Information Technology shall monitor Internet use of all computers and devices used for instructional and University business purposes and connected to the corporate network.
For all traffic, the monitoring system will record the source IP Address, the date, the time, the protocol, and the destination site or server.
Where possible, the system should record the User ID of the person or account initiating the traffic.
Internet Use records must be preserved for 180 days.
Internet Use Filtering System The Office of Information Technology shall block access to Internet websites and protocols that violate state, local, or federal law or that substantially disrupt or interfere with the University s educational mission.
CITO will recommend any changes to Senior Staff, which shall review these recommendations and decide if any changes are to be made.
Changes to web and protocol filtering rules will be recorded in the Internet Use Monitoring and Filtering Policy.
Internet Use Filtering Exceptions If a site is misclassified as inappropriate, employees may request the site be unblocked by submitting a ticket to the Information Technology help desk.
The CITO will review the request and unblock the site only if it is misclassified.
Employees may access blocked websites, with permission, if appropriate and necessary for business purposes.
If an employee has a business need to access a website that is blocked and appropriately categorized, the employee may submit a written request for approval to their immediate supervisor who will request approval from their division vice president.
The request shall include the person making the request, the website name, a website content description narrative, the business reason for the request, and the time period that access is needed.
Once appropriately approved, the requesting employee shall present the approved exception request to Information Technology in writing.
Information Technology will unblock that site or category for that employee and for the approved time period only.
If approval is for a specific time period, IT will re-establish the website block when time expires.
Non-Compliance An employee found to have violated this policy may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.
Policy Compliance Users found to have violated this policy may be subject to the following: Suspension of access to IT resources Penalties and disciplinary action, including expulsion or dismissal Referral of suspected violations of law to appropriate law enforcement agencies for further investigation or action Inquiries or Reporting Violations Office of Information Technology West Annex(IT Building), 106-C 337-475-5524 Communication This policy is distributed via the Academic Advisory Council, the Administrative Advisory Council, Campus Digest, Student Digest, the University Policies webpage, and through routine communication between departments.
fl-page-content
