NU courses require an internship, and faculty members and career development counselors help match students with the employers that are best for them.
Many internships and co-op experiences are even paid!
Niagara University has had at least one team or individual earn a conference championship in every year since 2003.
To make the network as useful, accessible, and effective as possible, there are certain expectations and rules for Participants.
In addition to common courtesy as network users, expectations are as follows: Res-Net is provided with the understanding that it serves primarily as an academic tool.
The University reserves the right to limit or prohibit those activities that might interfere with the network's academic or administrative use.
Participants are reminded that sharing of copyrighted materials over the network such as software, music, images, videos, publications, or any other protected materials is a violation of the Terms and Conditions, federal copyright statutes and is strictly prohibited.
Students who are cited in infringement notices under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act(DMCA) could have their network access suspended notice will be sent to Director of Student Affairs.
Repeat violations will result in a judicial referral.
A Participant's network access may be suspended or disabled for violating this agreement or provisions of the other policies governing the use of network and computing services at Niagara University.
Suspensions can also occur if the Participant's system is deemed the source of threatening or abusive network traffic(e.g., virus propagation, security intrusion, excessive use).
A Participant's network access may be suspended or disabled for violating this agreement or provisions of the other policies governing the use of network and computing services at Niagara University.
Suspensions can also occur if the Participant's system is deemed the source of threatening or abusive network traffic(e.g., virus propagation, security intrusion, excessive use).
The following security precautions are mandatory requirements on all computers connecting to ResNet.
The presence and use of current, active anti virus software with up-to-date virus definitions.
All critical patches and updates published for your operating system(e.g., Windows) must be installed.
Access to all active accounts must require the use of a complex password.
There should be no detectable evidence of spyware/adware/malware.
Participants are ultimately responsible for any and all network use or communications traffic originating from a computer registered to them, regardless of the actual author of such traffic.
Network service may be interrupted on occasion.
IT will work to restore service as soon as possible; however, Niagara University and IT are not responsible for any losses or damages caused by service interruptions or other failures in University equipment.
Students with infected computers that we determine are causing a disturbance on the network will be de-activated and subject to a $5.00 re-activation fee as well as a $10.00 cleaning fee after being cleaned and cleared for network re-activation.
All rights reserved.
