Acceptable Use Policy Use of ResNet services is a privilege, and it is the responsibility of each user to utilize these services appropriately.
The Ohio State University, through the Office of Student Life, provides network connection services to residence hall rooms and other university-owned housing facilities.
The use of this service is a privilege, and it is the responsibility of each user to utilize these services appropriately.
By connecting a host/computer to ResNet, users are bound to and required to adhere to all aspects of the OSU Policy on Responsible Use of University Computing Resources as well as any and all university, city, county, state and federal regulations.
In addition, users of ResNet at OSU are required to adhere to the following terms of acceptable use.
Users will refrain from abuse and excessive use of the finite resources and hosts connected to ResNet and the Ohio State network.
Users will also refrain from abuse and excessive use of hosts and services outside of ResNet and Ohio State.
Users must not illegally download or share copyrighted movies, music, software, or games.
As the intent of ResNet is to provide users with access to outside services, users will not attempt to run any unauthorized services.
Users will not attempt to circumvent the ResNet firewall or any other established network services.
Users will not modify or tamper with any ResNet network wiring, hardware, or jacks.
Users are responsible for all network traffic originating from their host.
Users are prohibited from installing personal routers(wired or wireless) to the network.
Routers may disrupt the network and introduce unnecessary security risks for other residence hall students.
Any actions that are deemed a violation of these policies may result in termination of services.
Users are subject to any applicable university and/or criminal sanctions and procedures.
For more information or to report abuse please contact the Student Life Support Center at(614) 292-5700.
content o-container The Ohio State University 2021 The Ohio State University - Technology Services 960 Kinnear Rd., Suite 120, Columbus, OH 43212 Phone: 614-292-5700 | Fa 614-688-5648 | slts@osu.edu Request an alternate format of this page | Accessibility | Privacy statement | Nondiscrimination notice | Turn on dark mode | Review cookie settings.c-footer.c-experience__unit.c-experience__sl.c-experience.o-container Tenant Script pc header Header logo Privacy Preference Center content Groups / Sub groups with cookies About Privacy container What are Cookies?
A cookie is a small text-based file placed on your device after you visit a website.
We use different types of cookies to: Help us learn more about how people use our websites, so we can make our sites more useful Deliver content that is meaningful to your while you are on our website.
Deliver advertising about Ohio State to your after you leave our website.
Discover if the links provided in our emails are useful to you.
Transfer information you ve selected from one page to another on our site.
Operate the functionality of our website as planned.
Conduct other similar or related activities.
Cookie Origins First party cookies are cookies that Ohio State sets when you visit our website.
We use these to make your experience on our website better and to ensure our website functions as expected.
Only Ohio State can access this data.
Third party cookies are cookies from third parties that we place on our website.
We use these to track our advertising effectiveness, improve advertising we may deliver to you after you leave our site and support your experience on our site.
The third parties do have access to this data, often the pages you visited on our website and your location.
Cookie Duration A session cookie is temporarily stored in your browser on your computer, phone or other device.
It is deleted after you leave the website or when you close the browser.
A persistent cookie is stored in your browser on your computer, phone or other device.
It is active until you delete it or it expires.
Strictly Necessary Cookies Always Active These cookies are necessary for our website and services to work as you d expect.
Cookies Details Performance Cookies Always Active We use these to ensure our site is working and fix errors.
We also use these to try new ideas.
Cookies Details Functional Cookies Always Active These help us customize your site experience using your previous behavior and choices as our guide.
Cookies Details Targeting Cookies Targeting Cookies We place advertising cookies on our site on behalf of third parties we work with.
These send information about your behavior on our site to advertisers so we can provide Ohio State ads to you on other websites.
Some third parties may pair this with your behaviors outside of the Ohio State website to further personalize the ads you receive.
These are third party, persistent cookies.
If you ve already deployed an ad blocker on your browser, you will not receive these cookies.
To do that, we use cookies.
We share some of your information with our social media, advertising and analytics partners.
Read our privacy statement(Opens in new window.)
