Student Stories Rankings & Awards Skidmore Facts Summer at Skidmore Leadership Maps, Directions & Virtual Tours Contact Diversity Title IX Sustainability Opportunity Program googleoff: index Latest News & Events Skidmore College honors veterans Staff, faculty, and students gathered to recognize the sacrifices and service of members of the armed forces at a campus Veterans Day ceremony.
Document Statement | Principles | Reason for Document | Entities Affected | Who Should Read | Reporting Alleged Violations | Contacts | Related Documents Document Statement Skidmore College owns and operates its electronic data infrastructure, which it must manage for the entire college community, in a manner that preserves a level of privacy and confidentiality while in accordance with relevant local state and federal laws, regulations and college policy.
Any of the functions/authority/responsibility assigned to a particular position in this document may be completed by the person holding that position or his/her designee if said person is unavailable.
Skidmore staff and faculty may be subjected to additional acceptable use policies and guidelines as reflected in the Employee https://www.skidmore.edu/employee-handbook/resources/vi-g.php and Faculty handbooks.
Principles The computing facilities at Skidmore College are intended as a resource for all members of the college community.
While IT encourages users to explore the versatility and power of the computing environment, users must: Use only those computing and information technology resources for which they have authorization.
Protect the access to and integrity of computing, data and information technology resources.
Ensure that sensitive data created, collected, maintained, used, disseminated and destroyed in a manner that prevents unauthorized use, corruption, disclosure, loss or theft.
Abide by all applicable local, state and federal laws and college policies.
Respect the copyrights and intellectual property rights of others, including the legal use of copyrighted software.
Use computing, data and information technology resources only for their intended purpose.
Respect the privacy and personal rights of others.
Refrain from any use that results in personal financial gain.
Never store or tansmit any payment card information(PC through end-user messaging technologies or through the Campus' wireless(Wi-F network.
Reason for the Document To protect the Skidmore community and Skidmore-managed computer systems from inappropriate use and to comply with relevant state and federal regulations and laws and college policies.
Entities Affected by this Document All entities of the college.
All members of the college community.
Reporting Alleged Violations Violations of this policy can be reported to(in writing) and will be governed by the respective area s disciplinary channels.
Violations of this policy may also be reported(in writing) to the appropriate individual as detailed in Table
Alternatively, you may also contact your supervisor, or a member of the President s Cabinet.
Contacts Direct any general questions about the college's acceptable-use policy to your department chair or director.
If you have questions about specific issues, call the offices listed in Table
232g;
