Learn more about the virus and ways to stay safe.
WiFi TSU-STUDENT TSU-STUDENT is the official public, unsecured wireless network for our on-campus community and guests.
Connecting to TSU-STUDENT doesn't require a password.
Steps to connect Visit your network settings.
From the list of available networks, choose TSU-STUDENT to connect.
You're now connected.
No password is required.
TSU-NET TSU-NET is the private, secured wireless business network for TSU's faculty and staff.
Only TSU approved devices may connect to TSU-NET.
Users must have a TSU Active Directory account to gain access.
Steps to connect Visit your network settings.
From the list of available networks, choose TSU-NET to connect.
When prompted, enter your MyTSU email address(firstname.lastname@tsu.edu) and password, click submit.
Read and agree to the network acceptable use agreement.
Choose to Trust the network.
You re now connected!
Housing WiF TSU-RESNET TSI-RESNET provides public, unsecured internet services for students and their guests in resident halls.
Connecting to TSU-RESNET does not require a password.
Steps to connect Visit your network settings.
From the list of available networks, choose TSU-RESNET to connect.
You're now connected.
No password is required.
Wired Connections Wired connections, private and secured business network are available in our academic and administrative buildings on campus for use by faculty and staff.
Only TSU approved devices may connect to these wired connections.
Users must have a TSU Active Directory account to gain access.
Do's and Don'ts of Using WiFi There are two types of Public WiF Secured and unsecured.
When in range, you can connect to an unsecured network without any type of security features like a password or login.
Conversely, a secured network requires a user to agree to legal terms, register an account, or type in a password before connecting to the network.
It may also have an associated fee or store purchase to gain access to the password or network.
Regardless of the connection type, you should always use public WiFi with caution.
Here are some do s and don'ts: Do connect to secured public networks whenever possible.
If you are unable to connect to a secured network, using an unsecured network would be permissible if the connection requires some sort of login or registration.
Don't access personal bank accounts, or sensitive personal data, on unsecured public networks.
Even secured networks can be risky.
Use your best judgment if you must access these accounts on public WiF
Don't leave your laptop, tablet, or smartphone unattended in a public place.
Even if you are working on a secure WiFi network, that will not stop someone from taking your property or sneaking a peek at your device.
Don't shop online when using public WiF
Sure, shopping may not seem like it involves sensitive data, but making purchases online requires personal information that could include bank account and retailer login credentials.
Shopping is not something you want to do on an unsecured WiFi network.
Do turn off automatic connectivity.
Most smartphones, laptops, and tablets have automatic connectivity settings, which allow you to connect from one hotspot to the next seamlessly.
This is a convenient feature, but it can also connect your devices to networks you ordinarily would not use.
Keep these settings turned off, especially when you are traveling to unfamiliar places.
Do monitor your Bluetooth connectivity.
Bluetooth in the home is a fantastic feature on many smart devices.
However, leaving Bluetooth on while in public places can pose a considerable risk to your cybersecurity.
Bluetooth connectivity allows various devices to communicate with each other, and a hacker can look for open Bluetooth signals to gain access to your devices.
Keep this function on your phone, and other devices locked down when you leave your home, office, or similar secured area.
If you require additional assistance, please contact the IT Service Center at itservicecenter@tsu.edu, http://itservicecenter.tsu.edu or 713-313-4357 with any questions.
