Build 0) Union College Garnet text reading 'Union College' positioned above smaller text reading 'Founded 1795' Union College ?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?
Union College and Apogee are committed to providing students with state of the art wireless and wired access.
Residents receive a standard package with an optional upgrade for an additional fee that increases the speed and number of devices supported.
To use the internet in residence areas, you will need to sign up for an Apogee ResNet account.
To connect to the Internet: Connect to MyResNet.com, then choose Create My Account and follow the directions.
Support If you have any questions, you can contact Apogee for help 24/7 via online chat at MyResNet.com or call(855) 813-7010.
You can also send Apogee an email at support@myresnet.com(link sends email), or text ResNet to 84700 and a support representative will get in touch with you.
All users of Union College computing resources must: Comply with all federal, New York State, and other applicable law; all generally applicable College rules and policies; and all applicable contracts and licenses.
Examples of such laws, rules, policies, contracts, and licenses include the laws of libel, privacy, copyright, trademark, obscenity, and child pornography; the Electronic Communications Privacy Act and the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, which prohibit "hacking", "cracking", and similar activities; the College's Student Conduct Code; the College s harassment and sexual harassment policies; and all applicable software licenses.
Users who engage in electronic communications with persons in other states or countries or on other systems or networks should be aware that they may also be subject to the laws of those other states and countries and the rules and policies of those other systems and networks.
Users are responsible for ascertaining, understanding, and complying with the laws, rules, policies, contracts, and licenses applicable to their particular uses.
Users must also comply with Apogee s policies.
Build 0) 2021 Trustees of Union College Student consumer information Website privacy policy COVID-19 Updates
