Client Services can be reached at x2400.
There are many options for getting online.
Students, faculty, and staff on campus have the option of connecting their personal computers, tablets, or smartphones using the guest wireless network.
When connecting from home, all members of the UT community with a valid UTAD username can use the VMWare client to access the UT vlab environment http://www.utoledo.edu/it/VLab/Inde html.
cisco webex meetings Learn more Advanced Networking Network Engineering actively researches the latest network technology and participates in national and regional organizations including Internet and the Ohio Supercomputer Center network.
Wireless Coverage Wireless access on the HSC and Main Campus is available in all buildings and in select outdoor spaces.
Currently there are four supported wireless networks available at the University of Toledo: UToledo: This wireless network resides inside the University firewalls and is limited to users with valid UTAD credentials using University owned/configured/patched devices.
UTGuest: This wireless network resides outside the University firewalls and only requires acknowledgement of the University acceptable use policy.
No credentials are required.
eduroam: This network resides outsides of University firewalls.
eduroam is an international roaming service for users in research, higher education and further education.
Since its inception in Europe, eduroam has spread to over 100 countries including the United States.
The US based arm of eduroam can be found by searching eduroam
eduroam can be used by students, faculty, and staff from any participating institution at any participating institution.
Authentication is done using the credentials used at the users home institution and machine authentication.
In the case of the University of Toledo, the username is in the form username@rockets.utoledo.edu.
eduroam offers a configuration utility for non iOS devices.
Eduroam setup eduroam chromebook setup ResNetDevices:
A ResNet wireless network that will allow devices such as gaming consoles and streaming devices to connect wirelessly within the dorms.
This is a two step process that requires students to register their device from a computer connected to ResNet and then associating to the gaming console SSID ResNetDevices.
A quick connection guide is available here.
The ResNetDevices network does not support some functionality available on home networks.
Device features that require mDNS functionality cannot be supported on the university s enterprise networks.
Outdoor WIFi The University of Toledo has outdoor access points in 10 locations.
Click on the link for a map to the geolocation of each outdoor
Please visit our Help Desk for assistance.
