3359-11-10  [  [ Access and acceptable use of university computer and 
informational resources
.  [(A) Authority.
 (1) 
The university of Akron is the legal owner or operator of all university "IT" 
systems, university "IT" resources and university information stored on those 
systems and resources.
 (B) Definitions and functions.
 (1) "IT". "IT" means information technology.
 (2) "Systems Authority." "Systems Authority" is the head of a specific 
subdivision, department, or office of the university who is responsible for 
oversight of particular "IT" systems, as delegated through the applicable 

organizational structure. This autho
rity may be delegated through the 
applicable organizational structure.
 (3) "Systems Administrator." "Systems Authorities" may designate another person 
or persons for purposes of system administration as "System Administrator" 
to manage the particular syste
m assigned to him or her. "Systems 

Administrators" oversee the day
-to-day operation of the system and are 
authorized to determine who is permitted access to particular IT resources.
 (4) "Certifying Authority." College deans, in the case of colleges, and th
e appropriate vice president, in the case of university administrative units, have 
"certifying authority" within their area of responsibility, and are thus 
responsible for certifying the appropriateness and accuracy of an official 

university document for e
lectronic publication in the course of university 
business.
 (5) "Information Owner." "Information Owners" are those individuals in a specific 
subdivision, department, or office of the university who have custody of the 

record information and who are accoun
table for its use and misuse. These 

individuals are often referred to as record custodians. "Information Owners" 

are authorized to determine who is permitted access to particular "IT" 
resources.
 (6) "IT" systems. "IT" systems are the electronic information
 processing, storage, 
and transmission systems, which include but are not limited to, the 
computers, terminals, printers, peripherals, PDAs and other portable devices, 

 3359-11-10  [  [  [  [  [2 networks, modem banks, online and offline storage media and related 
equipment, software,
 and data files that are owned, managed, or maintained 
by the university of Akron. "IT" systems also include, but are not limited to, 

institutional and departmental information systems, faculty research systems, 

desktop computers, the university's campus n
etwork, and university general 
access computer clusters.
 (7) "IT" resources. "IT" resources are the electronic facilities and electronic access 
codes and accounts made available to university faculty, staff, contract 
professionals, students and approved gu
ests, and include but are not limited 
to computers, networks, telephones, and information.
 (8) Specific authorization. Specific authorization is documented permission 
provided by the applicable "Systems Administrator," "Information Owner," 

or "Certifying A
uthority."
 (C) Scope. The access and acceptable use policies and related policies from this 
chapter apply to all "IT" users at the university of Akron and to all "IT" systems 

and "IT" resources at the university of Akron.
 (D) Privileges and responsibilitie
s. (1) The university of Akron provides "IT" resources and "IT" systems to the 
university community primarily to serve the interests of the University and 
its students in the course of normal operations. The provision of such 

services is in keeping with it
s academic, instructional, research, 

administrative and public purpose. Access and usage that do not support the 
university purpose are subject to restriction and regulation to avoid 

interference with university work and other applicable directives. All us
ers 
are obligated to abide by university directives, policies and regulations 
regarding usage.
 (2) Use of and access to "IT" systems and "IT" resources is a privilege, not a right. 
Except as indicated below, the university does not seek to monitor the 
comm
unications amongst its many and varied users. The university serves to 
transmit communications on its "IT" systems and "IT" resources from the 

senders to intended recipients. Users should not expect any right of privacy 

in the use of university "IT" system
s or "IT" resources since the university 
may be compelled under public records law, subpoena, investigation, or 

other law to release information transmitted through the university "IT" 

systems and "IT" resources. Additionally, the university reserves the r
ight to 
monitor, review, and release any such communications as necessary for 

purposes of security, public safety, or other situations such as suspected 

 3359-11-10  [  [  [  [  [3 disruption to "IT" systems or other shared resources or suspected violations 
of university rules or pro
cedures or local, state, or federal law. Accordingly, 
the university reserves the right to make rules and procedures that govern 
users' access and use.
 (3) The University is covered by several federal and state laws and regulations 
regarding information pr
ivacy and security and is committed to protecting 
the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of all such sensitive and 
confidential information, including, but not limited to, protected health 

information and customer information. Therefore, effectiv
e "IT" security is 

the responsibility of every University "IT" user, and every "IT" user is 

responsible for knowing the rules related to access and acceptable use, 
privacy, and security.
 (E) Acceptable access and use standards.
 (1) Users are expected to us
e "IT" resources and "IT" systems in a responsible and 
efficient manner consistent with the instructional, research, and 
administrative goals of the university of Akron. The particular purposes of 

any "IT" system or "IT" resource, as well as the nature and
 scope of 
authorized, incidental personal use may vary according to the duties and 
responsibilities of the user.
 (2) Use of university "IT" resources and "IT" systems must comply with Ohio law 
and university policies and directives.
 (3) Users are entitled 
to access only those elements of "IT" systems that are 
consistent with their specific authorization. Consistent with the 
organizational structure, "System Authorities," "System Administrators," and 

"Information Owners" will authorize access to specific sys
tems based on the 
individual's need to know, the individual's unit, the type of data involved, 
and the intended use of the information.
 (F) Misuse.
 (1) Privileges of usage may be denied or removed for the following:
 (a) Use that is harassing or threatening
 to others, or use that violates others' 
privacy.
 (b) Potentially destructive or damaging acts to the integrity of the university 
of Akron's or other "IT" systems, including, but not limited to:
 (i) Attempts to defeat system security.
 
 3359-11-10  [  [  [  [  [4 (ii) Knowing distribution of malware (software designed to infiltrate or 
damage a computer system without the owner's informed consent) or 
malicious code.
 (iii) Causing disruption, congestion, or security breaches of network 
communications.
 (iv) Engaging i
n port scanning or security scanning.
 (v) Executing any form of "IT" system or "IT" resource monitoring that 
will intercept data not intended for the user's authorized use, unless 

this activity is part of the user's normal job or duty at the university.
 (vi) Modification or removal of data or equipment.
 (vii) Use of unauthorized devices.
 (viii) Making "IT" systems or resources available to unauthorized users.
 (ix) Unauthorized copying of confidential or sensitive data without the 
permission of the informati
on technology security officer.
 (x) Revealing account password or other authentication methods to others 
or allowing use of university accounts by others, including family 
members.
 (xi) Circumventing user authentication or security of any "IT" system or 
resource.
 (xii) Use in violation of law.
 (c) Use in violation of university contracts.
 (d) Disruption or performing unauthorized monitoring of electronic 
communications.
 (e) Unauthorized access or use, which may include, but is not limited to:
 (i) Improper a
ccess and use of information beyond the individual's 
authority;
 (ii) Attempts to defeat system security;
 (iii) Disguised use; or
 (iv) Unauthorized sharing of passwords.
 
 3359-11-10  [  [  [  [  [5 (f) Misuse of e
-mail, such as, but not limited to:
 (i) Sending unsolicited e
-mails to a
 large number of recipients, i.e. 
sending spam
-mail or unwanted chain letters.
 (ii) Soliciting for personal financial gain.
 (g) Committing crimes or prohibited acts, including but not limited to the 
following. [Note: Illegal acts involving the university o
f Akron 
informational resources facilities may also be subject to prosecution by 
state and federal authorities].
 (i) Use of "IT" systems or "IT" resources for purposes unrelated to the 
mission of the university.
 (ii) Violating the rights of any person or c
ompany protected by copyrights 
or other intellectual property, or software license agreements, which 
shall include, but not be limited to installation, distribution or 

copying of technology products/services or copyrighted material for 
which the user does 
not have a license.
 (iii) Exporting software or technical information in violation of 
international or regional export control laws.
 (iv) Academic dishonesty, including, but not limited to, plagiarism and 
scientific misconduct, as provided in uni
versity rule 3359
-11-17. (h) Use that impedes, interferes with, impairs, or otherwise causes harm to the 
activities of others.
 (i) Use that is inconsistent with or that jeopardizes the university of Akron™s 
non-profit status, use for personal gain, use for
 personal financial gain, 
and use for promotion of business enterprises.
 (G) Procedures for implementing penalties, appeal of administrative decision.
 (1) Individuals given the privilege to use "IT" systems and "IT" resources are 
expected to abide by this 
and other applicable university of Akron policies, 
regulations, directives and guidelines. Disregard of this and other applicable 

policies, regulations, directives and guidelines subjects the user to applicable 
disciplinary procedures.
 (2) Procedures for r
eview of improper access and use.
 (a) Procedure for revocation of privileges:
 
 3359-11-10  [  [  [  [  [6 (i) The vice president and chief information officer shall designate a 
representative who shall collaborate with others as appropriate to 
review and receive complaints about viol
ations of this policy, and 
other applicable policies governing computer and informational 

resources. This designated representative shall have authority to take 

actions concerning violations of access and use standards, which 
include, but are not limited t
o: (a) Warn users of violations (transmitted electronically or in writing 
to the user).
 (b) Temporarily deny access or suspend usage, based on seriousness 
of the violation or recurrent violations of other prohibited access 

and use standards.
 (c) Deny acces
s or suspend privileges for a definite time.
 (d) Terminate access and privileges for an indefinite time.
 (e) Deny access to non
-members of the university community whose 
actions affect or pose a threat to the university.
 (ii) To the extent reasonably pract
icable, warnings will be used to instruct 
users who may be prone to mistakes, especially while learning new 
software. Privilege suspension shall only be used for serious or 

repeated violations of pertinent university rules, regulations, and 
directives.
 (ii
i) The university at all times reserves the right to take any immediate 
action necessary to protect the integrity of university "IT" systems 

and "IT" resources, with or without notice.
 (b) Appeal of an administrative decision:
 (i) Appeal of a decision made
 by the designated representative shall be 
made to the vice president and chief information officer. Thereafter, 
further appeal may be made to the senior vice president and provost 
and chief operating officer.
 (3) Violations beyond misuse of "IT" systems a
nd "IT" resources will be referred 
to and addressed by the appropriate office.
  [
 3359-11-10  [  [  [  [  [7 Replaces: 
  [  [ 3359-11-10  [Effective: 
  [  [ 01/31/2015
  [
Certification:
  [  [_______________________  [  [  [ Ted A. Mallo
  [Secretary
 Board of Trustees
  [Promulgated Under: 
  [ 111.15  [
Statutory Authority: 
  [ 3359  [
Rule Amplifies: 
  [  [3359  [Prior Effective Dates: 
  [ 01/13/97, 11/06/06
  [
