30.12 - Acceptable Use of Technology
Resources
Rewritten: March 24, 2017 
Preamble:
 The University of Idaho (UI) provides access to technology resources in
order to support its instruction, research, outreach, and service missions;
administrative functions; and student and campus life activities. This policy sets forth
the rights and responsibilities of users of UI technology resources and the measures
that may be taken by the institution to ensure the integrity of UI technology resources
and compliance with applicable law and policy. 
Contents:
A. 
Definitions
B. 
Policy
C. 
Scope
D. 
Exceptions
E. Process/Procedure
F. 
Contact Information
G. References
A. Definitions.

B. 
Policy. 
UI provides access to and use of its technology resources to its students,
staff, faculty, and others, in order to support its mission. Access and use of UI
technology resources is a privilege and requires that users of such technology
resources act responsibly. Users shall only access and/or make use of UI technology
resources in a manner that is consistent with applicable federal and state laws and
Idaho State Board of Education and UI policies and procedures. Users accessing UI
technology resources have no expectation of privacy with respect to such uses. 
Please
note that applicable laws and policies are not limited to those specifically addressing
access to and use of computers and networks; they may also include, but are not
limited to, laws and policies related to personal conduct. (See FSH 3170 B-7)
A-1. Technology resources
All university owned, operated, leased, or contracted computing, networking,
telecommunication, and information resources;
All information maintained within the universityÕs computing resources;
All voice and data networks, telecommunications and communication
systems and infrastructure; and
All technology resources including all hardware, software, applications,
databases, and storage media.
A-2. Data owner.
 The unit administrator with direct responsibility for all access
and use of designated types of data. Use of this term, in connection with this
policy, shall not affect university claims or rights of ownership of data or
ownership of third party data in the possession of the university.
B-1. User Responsibilities. 
Users of UI technology resources must:
a. 
Follow all applicable federal and state laws;
b. 
Follow all UI policies and procedures and IT standards;
c. Actively maintain the security of all devices accessing UI technology
resources or being used to access, store, or process UI-maintained data.
d. Actively maintain the security and privacy of university data or UI-
maintained third party data and store such data only in authorized locations,

consistent with UI policies and standards.
e. 
Report privacy, security, or technology policy violations to the UI ITS Security
Office.
B-2. User Actions Constituting Misuse of UI Technology Resources. 
User
actions, such as those described below, of UI technology resources shall be
considered misuse of UI technology resources:
a. 
Utilizing any identity or account not specifically assigned by UI to the user;
b. 
Hindering monitoring, or intercepting another userÕs network traffic, except
as expressly authorized by the UI;
c. Attempting to access, disclose, destroy, use, or modify university systems or
data without authorization of data owners;
d. Using technology resources for partisan political or campaign activities (see
FSH 6230), such as participating or intervening in a campaign for public
office or making technology resources available to a candidate, campaign,
political party, or political actions committee (see also FSH 3170 B-10).
e. 
Using technology resources for commercial purposes (including but not
limited to personal financial gain)
f. 
Using university resources for personal, non-commercial purposes,
excluding uses such as personal email or access to the internet, when such
activities do not interfere with an individualÕs employment responsibilities at
UI or give rise to a cost to UI.
g. 
Using technology resources for unlawful communications or activity,
including threats of violence, obscenity, child pornography, defamation,
harassing communications (as defined by law), such as cyberstalking or
other similar activities in violation of stalking laws;
h. Using technology resources for the creation or transmission of materials
which may put any personÕs personal safety at risk;
i. Using technology resources for unauthorized access to any system or

C. 
Scope.
 This policy applies to all users of UI technology resources, whether or not
formally affiliated with UI and whether on a UI campus or accessing and using
technology resources from remote locations.
D. 
Exceptions to the Policy. 
Sections B-2 (d-f) do not apply to students, guests, or
residents in university housing except when such uses are in violation of federal or
state law, or give rise to a cost to UI.
Other exceptions to this policy may be submitted in writing to the UI Information
Security Officer who will assess the risk and make a recommendation to the UI-CIO. 
E. Process/Procedure/Standards. 
Given the changing nature of technology, users are
encouraged to regularly review the latest IT standards on the ITS website for specific
guidance on acceptable uses of technology resources. 
F. 
Contact Information.
 The ITS Information Security Office (
its-
security@uidaho.edu
) can assist with questions regarding this policy and related
standards.
network;
j. Engaging in the unauthorized copying, distributing, or transmitting of
copyrighted materials (see FSH 5300), such as software, music, or other
media.
B-3. Noncompliance. 
Noncompliance with this policy may result, depending
upon the nature of the non-compliance, in the userÕs account or access to UI
technology resources being temporarily suspended, or disabled, or permanently
terminated. In the case of temporary suspension, UI may require implementation
of certain remedial measures or satisfaction of certain educational courses prior
to reinstatement of the userÕs account or access. Additionally, the user may be
referred for institutional sanctions to the appropriate university disciplinary body
and may be subject to civil and criminal penalties.
B-4. Remediation. 
The UI may take any actions it deems necessary to protect
and manage the security and integrity of its technology resources, including but
not limited to temporarily suspending or disabling user accounts or limiting the
available resources through traffic shaping, data caps, or other measures.

G. References. 
Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) - National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST) SP-800-53, Revision 4 
UI Ð FSH 2300 Ð UI Student Code of Conduct
UI Ð FSH 2400 Ð Disciplinary Process for Alleged Violations of Student Code of
Conduct 
UI Ð FSH 3170 Ð University Ethics
UI Ð FSH 5300 Ð Copyrights, Protectable Discoveries and Other Intellectual Property
Rights
UI Ð FSH 5700 Ð Research Data
UI Ð APM 30.11 Ð University Data Classification and Standards
UI Ð APM 45.19 Ð Export Controls, U.S.
UI Ð APM 65.02 Ð Records Inventory, Retention and Disposition
UI Ð APM 65.06 Ð University Electronic Records Management Guidelines

