  
 
 
 
POLICIES & PROCEDURES
 
     
 
Use of Computing Resources
 
 
 
Policy
 
500
-
10
 
Revision Date:
 
11/07/2011
 
 
POLICY PURPOSE
:
 
The purpose of this policy is to provide a better understanding of and written documentation of the University's 
computing resource poli
cy.
 
POLICY STATEMENT
:
 
In keeping with its mission, the University provides computing resources to members of the University community. The 
computers, networks, and computing facilities made available by the University for student, faculty, and staff use ar
e 
the property of California State University, Northridge and the State of California, and are provided for the completion of 
academic requirements, scholarship, and University business. Use of these resources is a privilege.  
 
 
The purpose of the Universi
ty Computing Resources is to provide a setting and opportunity for members of the 
academic community to express and to explore ideas openly, respectfully and freely, to acquire and to develop the skills 
of intellectual inquiry, and to critically examine th
e values of culture and society. Educational, scholarly and 
administrative programs have the highest priority, including the many aspects of faculty research.  
 
 
The University makes no guarantee of privacy. While the University avoids monitoring accounts,
 
the University may 
need to review accounts for administrative purposes or to provide statistical or legal information.  
 
 
There is also no guarantee of protection from intrusion by others.
 
PROCEDURES
:
 
1.
 
In keeping with having the capability to use the syste
m, users must use the facilities and resources responsibly.
 
 

 
All state and federal laws must be obeyed. In particular, sexual harassment, hate crimes and interfering 
with computing administration are forbidden.
 

 
All users are expected to observe and obey ca
mpus codes of conduct.  
 
2.
 
Use of computers, networks, and computing facilities for activities other than academic purposes or University 
business is not permitted, except insofar as such use is of an incidental, personal nature and does not place a 
burdenso
me load on resources.
 
 

 
Commercial use is forbidden.  
 

 
Wherever a class activity or research might appear to be commercial use, it should be clearly identified 
as a class activity, and is permitted
.
 

 
Professional activity, broadly defined as academic or scho
larly in nature, is permitted.  
 
3.
 
The University reserves the right to suspend the use of these resources for the following reasons:
 
 

 
Illegal activities.
 

 
Any activity which significantly reduces the ability of others to use these resources.
 


 
Activities contr
ary to this policy.
 
RESOURCES AND REFERENCE MATERIALS
:
 
Penal Code Section 484
-
502.9
 
 
FURTHER INFORMATION
:
 
Vice President for Information Technology an
d CIO
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED BY THE PRESIDENT 
 
 
 

