 
 
 
POLICY MANUAL
 
 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
 
 
Number 55
0
 
Subject: 
Appropriate Use
 
of Computing, Networking, and Information Resources
 
Effective Date: 
February
 
1, 2008
 
 
55
0.1
  
PURPOSE
  
 

of academic freedom, intellectual curiosity, openness, and integrity by defining the 
requirements and limits of appropriate use of informa
tion technology resources and 
services including computers, digital networks, and information resources at Utah State 
University. These rules are in place to protect faculty, staff, students, and the University. 
Inappropriate use exposes Utah State Univers
ity to risks including compromise of 
network systems and services, loss of confidential data, loss of the resource for legitimate 
use, and legal liability. 
 
550.2  DEFINITIONS
 

 
Authentication credentials
 

 
userID/PIN, username/passcode or other secrets 
or k
eys used to gain access to a restricted Resource.
 

 
Capacity of Resource
 

 
some Resources have a limit that can be exceeded by 
certain uses, either causing the Resource to crash or causing unacceptable 
delays in the delivery of results.
 

 
Malware
 

 
programs th

want or even know about 

 
often giving control of the computer to outsiders 
or reporting to outsiders the private information sent from or stored on the 
computer.
 

 
Phishing
 

 
messages and/or websites that 
impersonate legitimate businesses 
(especially banks) in order to intercept authentication credentials for 
individuals.
 

 
Privilege
 

 
while access is generally granted to everyone in a relevant role, the 
right is retained by the University to revoke that acce
ss when it is in the 
interest of the University, such as to protect the Resource from use in violation 
of policy or use in excess of capacity.
 


 
Resource
 

 
Computing, Networking and Information Resources 

 
including 
end
-
user computers such as desktops, lapto
ps, PDAs, smartphones, 
Blackberries, Treos; servers; peripherals such as printers, scanners, webcams; 
firewalls; network routers; wireless access points (see USU Policy 552 
Wireless Deployment
); databases; enterprise information system; system of 
record; s
hadow systems; etc.
 

 
Restricted Resources
 

 
some Resources are available only to individuals in 
particular roles while other Resources (USU homepage, for instance) are 
available without restriction and without authentication by the user.
 

 
Role
 

 
a category o
f user who is given access to a particular restricted 
Resource; may be as general as faculty or student, or as specific as advisor or 
auditor.
 

 
Strong Password
 

 
a password that is not easily guessed by individual or 
automated guessing, and is not easily cr
acked by hackers. Strong passwords 
are generally long and are not composed of words, names, numeric sequences 
or keyboard patterns. Some central services 
automatically
 
impose a strong 
password requirement; but many desktop systems leave this good practice 
to 
the user.
 

 
User
 

 
faculty, staff, students, and guests of the University.
 
550.3
  
POLICY 
 
USU Computing, Networking and Information Resources are provided as a service for 
use by faculty, staff, students, and guests in a responsible manner that is within 
the 
capacity of the Resource and consistent with the mission of the University.
 
Authentication credentials (e.g., ID/password) are assigned as an access privilege for 
restricted Resources that may be relevant to the role of the user as faculty, staff, stud
ent, 
or visitor. Users must maintain a strong password. Credentials must be protected from 
use by anyone other than the assigned individuals. Credentials may be revoked to protect 
the
 
Resources.
 
Users of Resources must obey relevant federal, state, and loc
al laws with
 
special attention 
to intellect
ual property laws (copyright), communications laws (libel, harassment, 
obscenity, child pornography, privacy, etc.), and government property laws (non
-
commercial use, etc.). The University will cooperate with law 
enforcement agencies 
when allegations of violation are made.
 
Users of Resources must protect the integrity of the Resource and the confidentiality of 
stored and transmitted data by following directions specific to the Resource being used 
and the data being
 
accessed. Those directions will be provided by IT or other 


gain access to the Resource o
r data (e.g., viruses, phishing, hidden malware, etc.).
 

User
-
owned equipment connected to the Un
i
versity network must be properly registered 
and managed in compliance with the separate USU Policy 551 
Computer Management
 
to 
protect against technical vulnera
bilities which will allow outsiders to gain access to the 
Resource or data.
 
University
-
owned equipment must comply with USU Policy 551 
Computer Management
, 
however users of that equipment should be alert for any indication of deficiencies in 
compliance tha
t may result in compromise to the security of the Resource or data.
 
Users are expected to recognize that the Resources being provided are subject to 
compromise and other failure at any time in spite of professional efforts in compliance 
with industry best 
practices.
 
Users should take extra precaution to protect their own privacy, to insure the 
confidentiality of their own personal identifying information, and to guard against the 
loss or destruction of their own intellectual property as a result of any comp
romise or 
failure.
 

through the Resource is subject to exposure by technical, legal, and extra
-
legal means 
beyond the control of the University.
 
USU Information Technolog
y is directed to interpret this policy and other relevant 
University policies as they apply to the changing deployment of Resources and provide 
Appropriate Use Procedures and Standards
 
that specify in greater detail the required, 
recommended or prohibited 
uses of specific Resources. Those procedures and standards 
will clarify, but not limit or change, the scope of approved policies; and will be approved 
by the IT Users Advisory Committee.
 
550.4  ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY & PENALTIES
 
Disciplinary action or sanct
ions for violations of this policy will be in accordance with 
USU Policy 311 
Disciplinary Procedures
 
for exempt and non
-
exempt employees, USU 
Policy 407 
Academic Due Process: Sanctions and Hearing Procedures 
for faculty, and 
Article VI
 
of the Student Code 
for students.
 
 
 
 
BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 

