 POLICY MANUAL
 GENERAL
  Number 
557 Subject: In
stitutional Email Service
 Date of Origin: 
September 24, 2008
 Date of Revision(s): July 31, 2013, August 10, 2016
 
Effective Date
: August 10, 2016
   1. Purpose
  The intentions of this policy are:
  1.1. to collect all 
official and business communications of the university in one 

email system of record (using @usu.edu addresses) for security, auditability, 

records management, document preservation, archiving and destruction, and 

other purposes as appropriate; and
  
1.2. to 
restore to the University at the termination of employment, control of the 

@usu.edu email addresses and @usu.edu email accounts that had previously 

been assigned to employees. This provision only applies to email accounts with 

addresses ending with @usu.ed
u and applies to all employees and affiliates 

other than formally approved faculty emeriti (as defined by USU Policy 401.6)
.  
2. Policy
  2.1. One enterprise email system (@usu.edu), managed by the Office of Information 

Technology (OIT), will be used for all instit
utional email business. All 
institutional email communications must be sent to or from @usu.edu 

addresses.
   
2.2. Messages that constitute a record of the official business of the institution must 
be preserved on the enterprise email system with the same care a
nd for the same 

duration, in compliance with regulations and policies that apply to similar hard 

copy communications.
  
2.3. Email messages must not contain private sensitive information 
(i.e. 
Social 

Security Numbers or academic
, employment or medical records)
 see Information Security Policy #558
. An acceptable alternative is to direct the 

authorized recipient to a secure source for that private information. Other 
confidential information must be encrypted 
in transit and in storage as a 

precaution against exposure.
  
2.4. An @usu.edu email address will be provided to all employees during their term 

of employment to be used in support of their job function.
 Additional use of the 

email service for personal purposes,
 consistent with the
 Appropriate Use Policy 
#550, is permitted during the term of employment.
  
2.5. At the conclusion of a term of employment, the employee's @usu.edu email 

address and email storage may b
e made accessible to departmental personnel for 
business continuity purposes, upon request to Human 
Resources (HR).
   
2.6. The @usu.edu email address, previously assigned to the employee, will be 
retained by the university and deleted or reassi
gned at USU's 
sole 
discretion.
 Business related information contained in the email storage will be 
retained or deleted at USU's sole discretion.
 Personal messages will be subject 
to deletion after providing the employee 
up to 
a 90 calendar day interval to 

retr
ieve or de
lete that information
.  
2.7. Enterprise email accounts (@usu.edu) may be provided to personnel who have a 

no-pay position.
  
2.8. Formally approved faculty emeriti 
as defined by USU Policy 401.6 will retain 

use of their @usu.edu e
-mail address and service
.  
2.9. Full 
service aggiemail.usu.edu email accounts (provided by Google) are 

available for the personal use of anyone with a USU A
-Number, including 
students, alumni, employees, former employees, retirees, and 

emeriti.
  Remember that aggiemail accounts should not be 
used for university 
business by current employees because those accounts do not meet the 

University's needs for security, auditability, records management, document 

preservation, archiving and destruction of business data.
  2.10. OIT 
and HR
 are responsible to
 develop 
and maintain 
procedures consistent with 
this policy and with currently deployed email functionality to meet the 

communication needs of the institution.
 
