622 622-1 (Rev. 2/21/08) 
Interim Acceptable Use Policy of Information Technology Resources 
California State University, Fresno  
 1. Policy 
California State University, Fresno (University) is re
sponsible for overseeing the appropriate use of its 
information technology resources and requires individuals accessing and using the University™s 

resources to adhere to the rules for responsible and appropriate use of such resources. 
2. Reason 
The University encourages the use of information 
technology resources to share information and 
knowledge in support of its mission of education, 
research, public service, and to conduct the 
University's business.  This policy provides a 
framework to promote and encourage responsible use 
of information technology resources. 
3. Scope  
All staff, faculty, and students of the University, 
guests, auxiliary or
ganizations, third 
parties, and any 
other entities granted access or using any University
 information technology resource must adhere to 
this policy.  
 Information technology resources (information resources) are devices or technologies that are 
designed, built, operated, organized, or maintained to 
process, store, transmit, or output information.  
These information resources include, but are not 
limited to, voice, data and video networks, computer 
accounts, electronic communications, files, comput
ing facilities, laboratories, software, and data. 
4. Guiding Principles 
The University recognizes the principles of ac
ademic freedom and shared governance, freedom of 
speech, and privacy rights that hold important implicat
ions for the use of information resources.  This 
policy reflects these principles within the context 
of the University's legal and other obligations.   
 The University™s information reso
urces are provided for the use of 
students, faculty, administration, 
and staff, and to some extent to members of the wi
der community, in support 
of the programs of the 
university. All students, facult
y, administrators, staff, and thos
e members accessing resources are 
responsible for seeing that these information resources 
are used in an effective, efficient, ethical, and 
lawful manner. 
5. Rights and Responsibilities 
University information resources pr
ovide access to resour
ces on and off campus, as well as the ability 
to communicate worldwide.  This open access is 
a privilege requiring individuals to use information 
resources responsibly.  Access and use of informatio
n resources carries with it certain conditions and 
responsibilities.   Individuals shall respect the rights of other users, 
respect the integrity of the information resources 
and observe all applicable laws, regulations, execut
ive orders, collective bargaining agreements, 
policies, and contractual obligations.  Individuals mu
st exercise care in acknowledging and respecting 
the work of others through stri
ct adherence to software licensing agreements and copyright laws. 
When accessing external resource
s to the University, individuals are responsible for abiding by any 
policies, rules, and codes of conduct applying to such resources. 
 
Individuals are responsible for the proper use of 
information resources assigned to them, including 
accounts, passwords, computers and data. Individual
s shall not knowingly falsely identify themselves 
and will take steps to correct misrepresentations 
if they have falsely or mistakenly identified 
themselves. 

622 622-2 (Rev. 2/21/08) 
Misuse of these resources or violation of the del
ineated conditions in this policy may result in the 
termination of the accounts and access, or, in cases 
of more serious infractions, the submission of 
the case to an appropriate disciplinary 
authority for further investigation.  
 
Individuals should report any appar
ent violations of law, university policy, and college/school or 
department policy concerning the acceptable use 
of information resources to their appropriate 
university manager and/or the Chief Information Security Officer (see section 11). 
6. Privacy 
The University™s intent is to consider informatio
n and content as private a
nd confidential unless they 
have explicitly been made available to other authorized 
individuals.  It is not the University™s practice 
to inspect, monitor or disclose the content of 
information stored on or transmitted through the 
University™s information resources.   
 However, individuals should not expect privacy in
 their access and use of 
University information 
resources.  As a practical matter, authorized 
individuals may access others™ information and/or 
electronic communication when necessary for the main
tenance and security of university information 
resources and services.  When performing these functi
ons, every effort is made to ensure the privacy 
of an individual™s information.  However, if viol
ations are discovered, they will be handled through 
normal university procedures. 

 Other causes for inspection, monitoring, and di
sclosure include the need to ensure operational 
effectiveness of resources and services; prevent or
 investigate a suspected breach of the law, this 
policy, or other University policie
s; or as part of an official Un
iversity disciplinary action, court 
enforced subpoena, search warrant, or valid requ
ests under the California Public Records Act. 
 
In addition, electronic communication is neither pr
ivate nor secure.  In communicating via e-mail, 
instant messaging, or other forms, it is t
he individual and not the University, who assumes 
responsibility for its contents.  All electronic messages may be subj
ect to discovery in civil litigation or 
in criminal investigations.  In most instances, there is no reason for electronic messages to be 
retrieved by anyone other than the intended addressee,
 but in limited and appropriate circumstances 
(e.g., in course of an official investigation of wrongdoing), electronic communication may become 
subject to internal monitoring by an authorized individual. 
7. Copyright, Licensing, and Related Concepts 
Among other rights, copyright 
law, in general, gives the owner of a 
piece of literary or associated work 
(including, amongst other types of work, softwar
e, music, videos, games
, artistic works, and 
photographs) the right to prevent that work from un
authorized copying and distribution via any form.  
As the University is subject to federal law, stud
ents, staff, faculty, and administrators must comply 
and abide with copyright law and Un
iversity copyright policy. 
 The concept of ‚fair use™ allows limited use of copy
right works for the purposes of research, private 
study, criticism and review; since the ‚fair use™ te
st is qualitative rather
 than quantitative, the 
prospective individual may need to check 
with the copyright owner before use. 
 
This means that most information and software is subj
ect to copyright and/or restrictions on its use.  
Each individual must respect this copyright 
and must comply with published usage restrictions 
relating to any program, information, image, web pag
e, or other material.  Any individual who installs 
software and/or information on University resources 
must ensure full compliance with any relevant 
copyright requirements and licensing agreements. 

622 622-3 (Rev. 2/21/08) 
8. Legal Requirements 
Law prohibits the unauthorized access, modificati
on, interference, or disruption of information 
resources, the harassment of individuals via electronic methods, and other inappropriate actions 
involving the use of information resources
1.  Violations of law may be subject to penalties under civil 
or criminal code.  University policies on sexual
 or other forms of harassment apply fully to all 
information resources, including electronic communication and the Internet. 
 University information re
sources shall never be used for purpos
es intended to incite or commit a 
crime; for example, it is illegal to post a credit 
card number, copyrighted information, or a computer 
password.  Criminal and illegal use may include obscenity, child pornography, threats, harassment, 
theft, and unauthorized access.  
 University information re
sources such as electronic communica
tion (e.g. e-mail, voice mail, instant 
messaging, etc.) are provided for university-relate
d activities.  Fraudulent, harassing, or obscene 
messages and/or materials are not to be printed, s
ent, or stored.  No e-mail or message shall be 
created or sent, nor Web pages created, that may cons
titute intimidating, hostile, or offensive material 
based on gender, race, color, religion, national or
igin, sexual orientation, or disability.  The 
University™s policies on se
xual or other forms of harassment a
pply fully to electronic communication 
and the Internet.  
 The following acts are relevant to use of informati
on resources in a university setting.  Violations may 
incur sanctions by the University and/or legal procee
dings.  Examples of violations, given below, are 
not intended to cover all eventualities: 
 a. Knowingly gaining or attempting to gain unauthorized access to any information resource, 
program, or information that the individual
 has no authorization to access or use. 
b. Intentionally gaining or attempting to
 enable inappropriate levels of access. 
c. Sharing the user name and password of his/her
 account without authorization and the explicit 
agreement by each party (lender and borrower). 
d. Unauthorized modification or access to any pr
ogram, file, data, electronic communication, or 
other computer material belonging to another individual or organization.  
e. Using information resources to impersonate, 
harass, threaten, or ot
herwise cause harm to 
other individuals or organizations. 
f. Intentionally transmitting any computer 
virus, worm, or other malicious software. 
g. Taking actions threatening the security or ca
pacity of information re
sources or which modify, 
destroy, damage, or overload these resources. 
h. Violating any applicable law, university policy,
 executive order, or 
contractual obligation. 
9. Prohibited Use 
The University is a not-for-profit, tax-exempt or
ganization and is subject to applicable federal and 
state laws and regulations on the use of University 
property.  Any use of information resources in a 
manner that places the University 
in jeopardy of such status is pr
ohibited.  University information 
resources shall not be used for non-University co
mmercial purposes, except as permitted under 
University policy or with appropriate approval.  

 University information resources (e.g., computer facili
ties, laboratories, offices,
 the library, etc.) do not 
provide a private environment for accessing electroni
c communication or other resources.  Therefore, 
individuals are advised to be aware of
 their responsibilities for appropriate behavior in public places.  
Some materials, which may be appropriate for scholarly inquiry in various disciplines, may be seen to 
have a strong possibility of creating a hostile en
vironment for other stu
dents, faculty, staff, and 
visitors. 
                                                  1 Reference California Penal Code 502 & 18 U.S.C. § 1030
 
622 622-4 (Rev. 2/21/08) 
University information resources 
shall not be used to imply University endorsement, including the 
support or opposition of the University with regard 
to any religious or political activity or issue. 
University resources shall not be used for mass 
messaging to newsgroups, bulletin boards, mailing 
lists,, or other individuals.  Individuals shall not impl
y University endorsement 
of products or services 
of a non-University entity from a University inform
ation resource, without approval.  Individuals shall 
not give the impression that they 
are representing, giving opinions or
 otherwise making statements on 
behalf of the University unless authorized to do so
.  To avoid this, individuals may use a disclaimer 
such as "The opinions or statements express
ed herein should not be taken as a position of or 
endorsement by California St
ate University, Fresno."  
University resources s
hall not be used to store, distribute, or 
transmit obscene or offensive material.  
No individual may hold in files (or Web pages), or transmit electronically, information, which 
constitutes obscene or offensive material.  In this 
context, the individual is responsible for the content 
of his/her files, Web pages and messages. Any 
such data received involuntarily, e.g., through 
electronic mail, should be deleted.  
These aforementioned restrictions might not prohibit such access 
or retention of such materials if they ar
e being used for a specific academic purpose. 
10. Incidental Use 
Information resources are owned and operated by the 
University and/or its various schools, colleges, 
departments, auxiliary organizati
ons, programs, recognized stu
dent and campus organizations, and 
are to be used for university-related activities and 
occasional incidental use.  Such resources are 
provided to facilitate a person's 
essential work as an employee, st
udent, or other role within the 
University.  Individuals may use University informat
ion resources for occasion
al incidental personal 
purposes of a private nature if such use does not: 
 a. Interfere with the University's ope
ration of its information resources. 
b. Burden the University with noticeable incremental costs. 
c. Interfere with a person's employment 
or other obligations to the University. 
d. Constitute or result in financial gain. 

e. Involve accessing, creating, downloading, or 
disseminating any information that a reasonable 
person would deem inappropriate, such as pornography or racist materials. 
f. Violate any applicable
 law, university policy, executive or
der, or contractual obligation. 
11. Reporting 
Suspected violations of this policy should be reported electronically at 
security@csufresno.edu
 or to 
the   Chief Information Security Officer 
 Information Technology Services 
 2225 East San Ramon Avenue 

 Mail Stop MF93 
 Fresno, CA. 93740-8029 
 Phone: (559) 278-3923 
12. Enforcement 
Federal and state laws and University policies in 
some cases apply specifically to the use of 
information resources.  In other cases, they ma
y apply generally to personal conduct in which the use 
of information resources is incidental.  Viol
ations of law may be referred for legal action. 
 Violations of provisions in this policy will be handl
ed through normal University procedures.  Violators 
may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including dismissal or expulsion under applicable 

University policies and collective bargaining agreements.   
 Cases of more serious infractions 
will be submitted to an appropriat
e disciplinary authority for further 
investigation. In such cases, because different
 laws, policies, and procedures govern appropriate 
actions involving students, faculty, administrators
, or staff, any appropriate 
actions must follow the 
appropriate procedures (for ex
ample, the various collective bargaining agreements governs 
appropriate actions involving faculty and staff 
members and specifies specific procedures). 

622 622-5 (Rev. 2/21/08) 
The University reserves the right to terminate, 
suspend, and/or limit access to its information 
resources when policies or laws are violated and 
to use appropriate means to ensure continued 
service delivery at all times, 
preserve network/system integrit
y, and safeguard its information 
resources. 
   
   
    _______________________________________________________ 

 Approved as an Interim Policy by 
President Welty on February 21, 2008 

