91.002:  Computer Services Forms
Status:
Approved on October 28, 2002
Signatures and dates 
on archival copy
Effective:
September 1, 2002
 Initiated by:
David Fritchley
Director of Computer Services
 Reviewed by:Nancy Prichard Crist, Chair
Policy and Procedure Review Committee
 Endorsed by:
Douglas Mann
Associate Provost for Information Technology
 Approved by:
Stephen Kopp
Provost
 Purpose
This policy is intended to ensure reliable functioning of hardware and software, and to ensure timely
provision of data entry, test scoring, label printing, and other services.
A.Policy
All forms which are used as input to, or output from, the Computer Services computers must be
reviewed and approved by the Computer Services Production Control Manager before ordering from
B.
ReviewersProposed revisions of this policy should be reviewed by:
1. Policy and Procedure Review Committee
2. Vice President for Administration
Forms
There are no forms that are specific to this policy.
suppliers. This policy applies to both new form orders and to reorders even though there may be no
changes in format.
Review by Computer Services is necessary in order that programming requirements and operating
requirements of the high speed printer are considered; i.e., weight of paper stock, type of perforations,
method of attaching multiple part forms (crimp, glue, etc.), type and size of carbon, standard sizes of
paper stock, conformity of layout with programs, vendor reliability for special forms, etc.
Procedures
Using departments should determine the type of form required, purpose of form, data needed,
approximate size, number of copies required, and prepare a draft copy of the form layout. (The
Production Control Manager may offer assistance in the development if desired.) A meeting should be
arranged with the Production Control Manager for review.
The Production Control Manager will review the forms specifications with systems, programming, and
operations areas and resolve any potential problems or discrepancies. The Production Control Manager
will prepare a final copy of the form layout and list the ordering specifications.
A purchase requisition should be processed by the ordering department with five (5) copies of the final
form layout and specifications attached. Three months lead time in ordering is necessary to allow for
bidding and proofs.
Printer's proofs should be reviewed by the Production Control Manager and the ordering department
before giving final approval to the printer.
When forms are delivered, the Production Control Manager will arrange for test runs on the computer
and will review the tests with the ordering department.
The Production Control Manager will maintain a history file of forms and a record of all problems with
each form and with each supplier.
The Computer Services Production Control Manager office is located in the Computer Services Center
and may be contacted by calling Computer Services' Frontline (597-8000) and asking for the Production
Control Manager.
C.
Administrative Policy Manual
 Andrea Swart revised this page 
(https://www.ohio.edu/policy/91-002.html)
 on September 12, 2017.
policy@ohio.edu
Ohio University   |   Athens, OH 45701   |   740.593.1000
Copyright © 2017 
Ohio University
.   All rights reserved.

