The University of Oklahoma
ŠNorman Campus
 Policy on the Acceptable Use of Information and 
Technology Resources
 1    University of Oklahoma
        Ver. 
2.1 Norman Campus
  Acceptable Use of Information and 
Technology Resources
  PURPOSE OF 
POLICY
   The University upholds the tenets of academic freedom
 and complies with federal and state laws, while recognizing 
that protecting the Information and Technology Resources of the University requires 
ethical, legal, and secure use by 
all members of the University of Oklahoma Community.
  
In support of the Unive
rsity's mission of teaching, research and creative/scholarly activity, professional and University 
service, and public outreach, the University provides Information and Technology Resources and services to Students, 

faculty, staff, and other entities in an
 atmosphere that encourages sharing of Information and open and free discussion, 
for academic and other purposes to support the University's mission.
  
Accordingly, each user of University Information and Technology Resources must assume responsibility and 

accountability for the appropriate and responsible use of these resources and associated privileges. 
The information 

set forth below further defines authorities, rights, privileges, roles, and responsibilities, as well as consequences of 

possible misuse, a
nd examples of misuse.
  POLICY 
STATEMENT
   The University of Oklahoma requires people who use its Information and Technology Resources to do so in a 

responsible manner, abiding by all applicable laws, policies, and regulations.  Use of the University™s Inf
ormation and 
Technology 
Resources constitutes express consent to this policy.  Users understand they have no expectation of 
privacy
 in the use of state resources and are limited to the uses as described herein.
   WEB 
ADDRESS FOR THIS 
POLICY
  http://www.ou.edu/content/dam/IT/security/Docs/policies/Acceptable_Use_Policy.pdf
  SCOPE
  ENTITIES
/I
NDIVIDUALS 
AFFECTED BY THIS 
POLICY
 All Norman Campus 
University Workforce Members, Students, and Visitors that access or use Information or Technology Resources 
of the University.
 RESOURCES 
AFFECTED BY THIS 
POLICY
 
The University of Oklahoma
ŠNorman Campus
 Policy on the Acceptable Use of Information and 
Technology Resources
 2  This policy applies to all Information and/or Technology Resources that are owned, leased by, o
r in the custody or control of the 
University as well as to any Information and/or Technology Resources that access such University resources or those that are 
used 
for any University
-related business.
  POLICY
  AUTHORITIES
, RIGHTS
, PRIVILEGES
, ROLES
  Access
, Audit
, and Monitoring of University Information and Technology Resources
   The University retains its right and responsibility to manage 
and protect its Information and Technology Resources
. The 
right and 
responsibility
 to manage and protect
 Information and Technology Resources
 includes, but is not limited to, 
monitoring and auditing equipment, systems, and network traffic; accessing data, 
e-mail messages, voicemail messages, 
Internet communications, system
, network usage records, and other Information and Technology Resources at any time, 
with or without users' specific consent or knowledge; disconnecting, blocking, limiting, or otherwise a
ctively responding 
to user sessions, user account activity, or devices that interfere with other systems, devices, or users on the University 
network or that are believed to be compromised or otherwise present a security threat to University Information an
d Technology Resources.
    Whenever any individual™
s activity potentially threatens, erodes, or damages the 
capability, 
integrity
, security,
 or 
sustainability of 
the University™s Information and Technology Resources
 by use of any electronic device
, the Univ
ersity 
may take any action necessary to ensure the safety, security, and integrity of University assets, including, but not limited 
to, blocking
, accessing, or disabling the electronic device.
    Privacy
:  Disclosure
 of Information and University™s Right to Access
   University Information and Technology Resources 
may be 
subject to the Oklahoma Open Records Act and the 
information they contain 
may be 
statutorily open to, and mu
st be made available for, public access pursuant to this law, 
unless expressly excluded by law. 
Users should be mindful that 
all information including 
e-mail and other 
communications
 may be reviewed by the public and, therefore, 
should consider the 
appropriateness of
 contents,
 language, tone, 
etc
. All users of University Information Systems and Technology Resources have no expectation of privacy 
as to any 
information or 
communications thereon or the uses made of the Internet or email or other social 
media through 

the University™s systems or equipment.
   The University 
may adopt protocols for the review and access of 
computer
s, systems
, and network
s in order to safeguard 
information and technology resources. S
uch pro
tocols may be adopted at the Universi
ty™s
 discretion and shall not 
limit
 the University™s ability to 
access
 information under law or policy. 
    Incidental and General Personal Use
 by University Workforce Members
   Use of University Information and Technology Resources by University Workforce Members for personal use unrelated 
to University business should be minimal
; must not detrimentally affect employee productivity
; disrupt the systems 
and/or harm the University™s reputation or mission
; and not violate any University policy or federal, state, or local law 
or regulation
.  Nothing herein shall restrict an employee™s right to discuss matters protected by applicable fede
ral, state, 
or constitutional law.
    Use of University Information and Technology Resources for personal use is at one™s own risk.  The University makes 
no guarantee of any users™ continued access to their personal information stored on University Resource
s.   
The University of Oklahoma
ŠNorman Campus
 Policy on the Acceptable Use of Information and 
Technology Resources
 3  Courtesy Email Accounts
   The University may provide courtesy email accounts to retirees, alumni, and other individual
s no longer directly associated 
with the University.
  Courtesy email accounts are not a right and must be used for personal, non
-public use. As such, 
these accounts are not records as defined by the Oklahoma Open Records Act, 51 O.S. § 24A.1 et seq.
  Courte
sy email 
account users are required to comply with the terms and conditions of this policy and any other applicable information 
technology policy.
  The University reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to revoke use of this resource if it is used in a
 manner not consistent with University policies or at any time for any reason.
  The University is not responsible to courtesy 
email account users for any data loss, integrity, reliability, security, or unavailability.
     RESPONSIBILITIES
  Computers and networks can provide access to resources on
- and off
-campus, as well as the ability to communicate with other users 
worldwide. Such open access is a privilege, and requires that individuals act responsibly. Users mu
st respect the rights of other users, 
respect the integrity of University 
Information and 
Technology Resources, 
information or data thereon, 
and related physical resources, 
and observe all relevant laws, regulations and contractual obligations.  All Univer
sity Workforce Members, Students, and Visitors, and 
all University Components and their leadership, are responsible for and accountable for their use and management of Universit
y 
Information and Technology Resources.
  Individuals
  All University Workforce 
Members, Students, and Visitors 
are personally responsible and accountable for
:  Integrity of Identity 
   Maintaining the secrecy and security of 
any 
University account and password or other authenticator information, and for 
preventing their knowledge, access or use by anyone other than the individual to which 
the User was
 assigned.
   Protecting against unauthorized activities associated with 
the User™s 
University ID.
   Accurately representing 
the User™s 
identity 
while using
 University Information and Technology Resources 
and/
or 
conducting 
University business.
   Responsible Access 
   Ensuring 
the User 
access
es
 only the 
Information 
the User is
 authorized to use and view.
   Ensuring that 
the User™s 
access to Information is in accordance with the intellectual property rights or confidentiality 
obligations pertaining to the Information.
   Responsible Disclosure 
   Determining and considering the sensitivity and value of University Information prior to sending it to another entity 
inside or outside the University, whether electronically or in hardcopy, and safeguardi
ng the Information as appropriate.
   Ensuring that 
the User™s 
disclosure of University Information is in accordance with the intellectual property rights 
pertaining to the Information, and is in accordance with University policy and/or applicable law.
  Care
, Security
, and Safeguarding 
   Ensuring that University equipment, devices, systems, Information Resources, and technology remain within the control 

of 
or adequately secured by 
the University or its Workers at all times.
  
The University of Oklahoma
ŠNorman Campus
 Policy on the Acceptable Use of Information and 
Technology Resources
 4   Exercising due care in the use of University Information and Technology Resources and safeguard any such Information 
and Technology Resources within your control.
   Ensuring that
 use of University Information and
 Technology Resources does not interfere with, infringe upon, or 
otherwise negatively affect the equitable use or availability of the resources by other authorized users.
   Complying with all applicable laws, regulations, and University policy, whether or n
ot specifically addressed in this 
policy.
      Responsible Reporting
   Promptly reporting any suspected or confirmed violations of this policy or compromises of University systems or 
resources to appropriate management or 
campus contact.
  Departments
 and Department 
Leadership
  Leaders and management of University Components should
   Ensure 
all of their staff
 are informed
 of this policy 
and 
that each employee understands and undertakes to comply with 
this Acceptable Use Policy.
   Incorporate specific acceptable use and information security responsibilities into all contracts
 with third party
 individuals 
who have access to restricted, customer, or otherwise sensitive Information.
  RESTRICTIONS
  Activities that are expressly prohibited of all University Workforce Members, Students, and Visitors include, but are not lim
ited
 to:
  Misuse of Identity 
   Allowing use of any University account or system session by others to whom it is not assigned.
   Using any University identifier, identity, account or credential that has not been 
assigned and authorized for your use.
  Malicious Use
   Knowingly i
ntroducing malicious programs into a University network, server, or other resource.
   Attempting to harm or destroy data or systems of the University, another user, 
another agency
, or network.
   Using University Information or Technology Resources in any way that is in violation of law, regulation
, or other 
University policy.
   Violation of Intellectual Property
, Software Licensing
, Copyright
, and Export
 Responsibilities
   Using University Information or Technology Resources to copy and/or transmit any document, software or other matter 
in violation of any copyrigh
t, patent, or any other applicable intellectual property right, law
, or regulation.
   Using University Information or Technology Resources to copy and/or transmit any document, software or other matter 
in violation of any
 export control or other federal law
 or regulation.
     
The University of Oklahoma
ŠNorman Campus
 Policy on the Acceptable Use of Information and 
Technology Resources
 5  Unprofessional Use
 and Use Inconsistent with University Mission
   Using University e
-mail or IP address or University Technology Resources to engage in conduct that violates University 
policies
, guidelines
, or state or federal law.
   Misrepresenting or exceeding 
the User™s 
authority in representing the opinion of the University when posting to 
a public 
newsgroup, distribution list, listserv, web site, blog/web log, social media service, or other public site or service with a 
University e
-mail or IP address that may represent the University to the public.
   Using University Technology Resources to
 store, collect, distribute, or share content, information, or any data of any 
type that violates any University policy
 or guidelines
.   Using 
University Information and Technology Resources 
for commercial 
exploitation;
 dissemination of false
, fraudulent,
 or misleading commercial 
advertising; dissemination of unsolicited commercial bulk emails
; or 
to propose, consummate, 
or engage in any illegal transaction.
    Nothing herein shall restrict an employee™s right to discuss matters protected by applicable fede
ral, state, or constitutional 
law.
  EDUCATIONAL 
SYSTEMS AND 
PLATFORMS
   The University 
provides faculty, staff, and students with access to various edu
cational systems and platforms (
course 
management systems, 
learning management systems, 
etc.) for academic, educational, and research use.  
These educational 
systems and platforms are extensions of the classroom and learning environment.  Accordingly, their use is limited to 
academic, 
educational, and research purposes.  Any other use is spec
ifically prohibited, including
, but not limited to, disseminating
 unsolicited, commercial messages
; engaging in
 disruptive
 activity or behavior
; or 
engaging 
any other conduct or behavior 
violating a University 
policy.  
Student
 information (
i.e
., class list
s, 
contact information, or other education records relating to 
students)
 contained on an educational system or platform may 
be used solely for participation in the course, lesson, or 
presentation
; dissemination of
 such student information
 should adhere to
 University policy.
  ENFORCEMENT
    This policy is authorized and approved by the Security Governance Executive Council. The University™s Internal 
Auditing department is responsible for monitoring and enforcement of this policy. This 
policy will be reviewed every 
3 years or as needed.
  The University considers any violation
 of this policy to be a 
potentially 
serious offense.
  Violators 
may be
 subject to disciplinary action
 including, but not
 limited to, those outlined in the Student Code, Staff 
Handbook, Faculty Handbook
, and applicable laws.
  When it is determined that a system or account is being used in a way that appears not to comply with University policy, the 
system may be temporarily r
emoved from the network or account disabled
. When appropriate, the owner or user of the 
system or account may be informed of the reason for the action. It is the user™s responsibility to work collaboratively with 
the University to r
esolve the problem.
  The University reserves the right to copy, monitor, and/or examine any files or Information residing on University systems, 
networks, or computing resources related to the alleged unacceptable use and to protect its systems and networks
 from events 
or behaviors that threaten or degrade operations, and/or where an applicable Legal Hold notice is initiated, and/or the Offic
e of Legal Counsel otherwise directs such action.
     
The University of Oklahoma
ŠNorman Campus
 Policy on the Acceptable Use of Information and 
Technology Resources
 6  REVISIONS AND 
APPROVALS
  REVISIONS
  Revision Date
 Version
 Revised By
 Changes made
 1/5/2016
 1.0
 Caleb Muckala
 Creation
 8/31/2016
 1.0
 Anna Biggers/Caleb Muckala
 SGAC and SGEC feedback and 
formatting
 6/29/2017
 2.0
 Anna Vakulick
 ITC Comments
 12/20/2017
 2.1
 Ron Fellhauer
 Approval updates
  APPROVALS
  Approval Date
 Version
 Approved By
 Title
 8/31/2016
 1.0
 SGEC
 CIO, OLC, AF, Provost
 12/20/2017
 2.1
 IT Security Executive 
Committee
 CIO, OLC, AF, Provost, VPR
          
