  Acceptable Use of IT Resources 
(Network and Computing) Policy             Effective Date:
 July 1, 2007  Policy Statement
 Columbia University requires that all indivi
duals accessing University electronic information 
resources to abide by the standards of accep
table usage indicated within this policy. 
 The University is not responsible for information or mate
rials residing on non-University systems or available over publicly accessible ne
tworks even if accessed via the University™s network.  Such materials do not necessarily refl
ect the attitudes, opinions, or values of the 
University, its trustees, f
aculty, staff, or students.   The University reserves the right 
to modify or amend this policy a
nd to limit or restrict the use of 
its electronic information resources
 at its sole discretion.    Reason for the Policy Columbia University™s network and compu
ting technology provides information, data, and 
communication services. Responsible use of electronic information resources is necessary to 
create and maintain an open community of responsible users based on mutual respect and 
cooperation, commitment to the integrity of 
resources and data, and compliance with all 
University policies and federal, state, and local statutes. 
 This policy defines acceptable usage of Columbia
 University network and computing resources. 
 Primary Guidance to Which This Policy Responds This policy is established under the provisions of Columbia University™s Information 
Technology Security and Policy Program. 
 Responsible University Office & Officer The office of Columbia University Informati
on Technology Security is responsible for the maintenance of this policy, and for responding to
 questions regarding this policy.  The Chief Information Security Officer (CIS
O) is the responsible officer.  Revision History This policy was established in July 2007.  Who is Governed by This Policy This policy applies to all individuals who access, use, or 
control University electronic 
information resources.  Those individuals covere
d include, but are not limited to staff, faculty, 
students, those working on behalf of the University, guests, tenants, visitors, and individuals authorized by affiliated institutions and organizations.  
  Who Should Know This Policy 
All individuals governed by this policy should be familiar with it. 
  Acceptable Use of IT Resources Policy - final  
  Page 1 of 4 
  Exclusions & Special Situations None  Policy Text  This policy establishes the expectations for all users of the University™s electronic information 
resources and data.  It addresses the availability and integrity of resources in support of the 
University™s missions, codifies a
ppropriate usage, establishes the 
need for users to respect the 
rights of others and to be in compliance with 
other University policies, policies of external 
networks and resources, and all applicable federal, state, and local statutes. 
 The University™s electronic information resour
ces are provided to support the teaching, learning, 
clinical, and research missions of the Universi
ty and their supporting administrative functions. 
Inappropriate use of these electronic information resources threatens the atmosphere for the 
sharing of information, the free exchange of id
eas, and a secure environment for creating and maintaining electronic 
information resources. 
   Appendix A provides a partial list of relevant statues regarding use of electronic information 
resources.   Examples to assist with interpretation a
nd administration of this policy are provided 
in Appendix B - ﬁExamples of the Acceptable Use IT Resourcesﬂ at the end of this document
.  Responsibilities  General  No University electronic information resour
ce may be used for a purpose that violates 
University statutes or regulations or for an illegal or criminal purpose. 
 Use of the University electronic informa
tion resources for commercial purposes, except where explicitly approved, are strictly prohibited. Prohibited uses include but are not limited to: development of programs, data 
processing or computations for commercial 
use, preparation and presentation of advertising material, or the running of a server 
connected to the Un
iversity network.   Many people use University systems and netw
ork for daily work; therefore, obstructing this work by consuming excessive amounts 
of system resources or by deliberately 
crashing the machine(s) will not be tolerate
d. Before running large jobs on a shared 
system, perform due diligence by contacting the 
administrator of the system to determine 
if the job is permitted and how to minimi
ze the impact. Network usage is continuously 
monitored and excessive use will 
be automatically restricted.  
  Copying, storing, displaying, or distributing copyrighted ma
terial using University systems or networks without the express permission of the copyri
ght owner, except as otherwise allowed under copyright laws, is prohibited. Under the Federal Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998, repeat infr
ingements of copyright
 by a user can result in termination of the user's access to University systems and networks.  
 Network use 
 The owner of any device connected to the network is responsible for the security of and 
traffic generated by that device. This includes any traffic, regard
less of origin, that travels through such a device.  A device initiating 
or transmitting an attack on other systems 
Acceptable Use of IT Resources Policy - final  
  Page 2 of 4 
  (e.g., having fallen victim to a virus, worm, or
 break-in) will be taken off the network immediately until it has been made secure.  
 Unauthorized creation of any program, Web form, or other mechanism that asks for a 
Columbia user identity and password 
(e.g., UNI, CUNIX ID) is prohibited.    No University network may be used as a ve
hicle to gain unauthorized access to other systems.  
 Computing use  Immediately report any systems, which contai
n information classified as confidential, 
that have been compromised to CUIT Secur
ity using the ﬁContactsﬂ information below. 
To preserve any evidence of tampering or 
misuse, do not use the 
system until a systems 
administrator has investigated the problem. 
 Computer accounts provide access to persona
l and confidential data. Therefore, individual accounts cannot be transferred to or used by another individual and sharing accounts or passwords is not permitted.  
 Each user is responsible for the proper use of his or her account, protecting data, and any activity performed via their 
user account. Therefore, choose strong passwords and safeguard them, ensure that file protections 
are set correctly, and review last logon status (if available) to ensure your user account was not compromised.  
 Unauthorized attempts to escalate privileges on a University system, or access to any 
account or system not belonging to you are not permitted.  
 Report possible security lapse on any University system or network to the system 
administrators.  
 The system administrators conduct periodic 
security checks of University systems and 
networks, including password checks. Any user found to have an easily guessed or compromised password is required to change 
his or her password during next login.   Any University system use by outside indi
viduals or organizations requires special permission from the system's administrator and 
payment of fees to the University and to 

the appropriate software vendors where applicable.   University computing facility use for playing computer games is
 strictly prohibited.  Frivolous, disruptive, or inconsiderate conduct in computer labs
 or terminal areas is also 
strictly forbidden.  Privacy and information / data protection 
 All private information (e.g., Social Security
 Numbers, credit information, passwords, 
etc) must be protected from 
unauthorized disclosure.    Unauthorized attempts to read another pers
on's protected files or gain access to their 
computer are prohibited. 
 Local system administrators 
and providers of University electronic 
information resources 
and data have the additional responsibility of ensuring the integrity, confidentiality, and 

availability of the resources they are mana
ging.  Persons in these positions are granted significant trust to use their privileges appropriately for their intended purpose and only when required to maintain the system. Any 
private information obtained in carrying out 
these duties must be treated in the strictest confidence. 
Acceptable Use of IT Resources Policy - final  
  Page 3 of 4 
   Local system administrators s
hould not override files protections unless necessary in the course of their duties, and must treat the contents of thos
e files as private information at 
all times. 
 Privacy Expectations  User files or emails on central University systems are kept as private as possible. 
 The University respects the privacy of individuals and does not routinely monitor the content of the information passing through its 
network, data stored on its servers, or posted by individuals not acting in an official capacity.
  However, to protect the integrity of its resources and the rights of all users, the University reserves the right to examine 
material stored on or transmitted through its re
sources if there is cause to believe that 
either a user violated the standards for 
acceptable computing use or a user gained 
unauthorized access to the University™s electronic information resources.  
 There may be inadvertent inspection in the or
dinary course of ma
naging and maintaining 
the computer network and in carrying out othe
r day-to-day activities. However, user files on central University systems are kept with utmost privacy. 
 Enforcement Violations of these policies may result in th
e immediate suspension of computer account and 
network access pending investigation of circumstances and ma
y lead to their eventual 
revocation. Serious violations will be referred directly to the appropriate University or outside 
authorities. Unauthorized use of University computing facilities is a criminal offense. The 
penalties may be as severe as suspension or di
smissal from the University and/or criminal 
prosecution.  Definitions  Data is a stored collection of information th
at may include alphanumerics, words, sounds, 
symbols, or images.  
 Electronic Information Resources
 include data, networks, computers, and other devices that store or display data, communications devices
, and software used on such devices.  Contacts For questions or comments: 
Columbia University Information Technology 
Web: http://www.columbia.edu/cuit/support/
  Email: 
security@columbia.edu
Telephone: 212-854-1919   Cross References to Related Policies For CUIT Security Policies, s
ee the University Administrative
 Policy Library, CU Information 
Technology section:  http://www.columbia.edu/cu/administration/policylibrary/responsible_office/cuit.html 
  Acceptable Use of IT Resources Policy - final  
  Page 4 of 4 
