Rev. 8/5/13
  Acceptable Use Policy for Internet
 and Network
s in the
 Eastern Washington University Residence Halls
    Introduction
:  Eastern Washington University Department of Housing (ﬁEWUﬂ) has made available 
through 
the Office of Information and Technology 
 broadband access to the 
Internet for individuals residing in 
EWU™s Residence Halls.  Access to the Internet is a privilege.  The purpose of this policy is to establish rules 
governing the acceptable use of the 
Internet
/Network
 in University Housing.  Conn
ection to the Internet is subject to 
the following requirements.  Failure to comply with these rules may result in termination or suspension of 
Internet 
& network 
account access; University discipline and/or legal action.  
   Scope
:  The use of the 
Interne
t/Network
 is limited to individuals who are authorized to reside in EWU 
Housing.  Individuals who are permitted access to the 
Internet
/Network
 are responsible for using it in an effective, 
ethical and lawful manner as detailed in this policy.  Authorized u
sers are responsible for all network traffic initiated 
from their 
personally owned equipment connecting to the network, i.e. computer, printer, smartphone, tablet, etc. 
   User Responsibilities
: Internet
/Network
 Users shall keep antivirus software with cur
rent virus definitions 
active and operating on their computers and are to keep current 
operating system, software, security patches, etc
. Operating System security patches operating on their computers.  Internet Users also agree that they shall abide by 
all copyright laws and maintain responsibility for any legal action for any written, audio or video copyright 
violations.  Internet Users also agree to refrain from any unauthorized 
Internet
/Network
 use as outlined below:
   Unauthorized Uses
:  The 
Internet
/Network
 may 
not
 be used for any of the following purposes:
  
 1)  Any use which is prohibited by EWU policy; state/federal law or regulation; 
   2)  Inappropriate communications, including but not limited to, communications which are fraudulent, 
  deceptive,
 harassing, defamatory, libelous, threatening, intimidating, discriminatory or obscene;
  
 3)  Distribution of unsolicited e
-mail, including but not limited to, chain letters, mail bombs, virus hoaxes, 
  spam mail, and other e
-mail that may cause excessive 
network traffic or computing load;
   4) 
The network is not for hosting content or distributing intellectual property of others. 
   5)  Access the 
Internet
/Network
 for the purpose of engaging in a malicious attack
, which may include the 
  alteration or dest
ruction of any information on the Internet or on any network accessible through the 
  Internet for which you do not own or have explicit permission to alter or destroy;
   6)  Access the 
Internet
/Network
 to probe and/or exploit security holes in other syste
ms, use of unauthorized 
  IP addresses; the introduction, creation or propagation of computer viruses, worms, Trojan Horses, or 
 malicious codes; alteration of the source of message; or  forging of e emails;
   7)  Physically damage or vandalize 
Internet
/Network
 resources;
    8)   Unauthorized use
, distribution,
 or copying of software, images, music, books or other intellectual 
  property;
   9)  Use 
Internet
/Network
 connections in EWU housing to provide any service that is visible off campus 
  (i.e., avai
lable on the global 
Internet);  
  
 10)  Operate a 
network or wireless 
router on the 
EWU Housing network or I
nternet system.
  Right to Monitor
:  EWU housing has the right to monitor the content of the 
network and 
Internet service
s provided and may disclose 
any information EWU deems necessary to third parties including but not limited to, law 
enforcement
.   Any information that is in violation of this policy may be removed or not posted to the Internet.    
 
