Gardner-Webb University Technology and Acceptable Use Policies
Revised March 19, 2010
The purpose of this policy is to describe the appropriate use and security of University Technological assets,
associated responsibilities, and rights of all Users employing these resources. 
All Users of University Technology
assets are expected to be familiar with each policy contained here within and the consequences of violation as listed
below. 
This policy supersedes all previous Gardner-Webb University Computer Usage Policies.
Violation of these contained policies may result in the immediate suspension of computer account and network
access pending investigation resolution. 
Depending on frequency and/or severity, the offender may lose all
computer account and network access in addition to facing the appropriate University judicial review. 
The penaltiesmay include suspension or dismissal from the University and/or criminal prosecution where warranted.
Network Security and Privacy Policies:
Unauthorized attempts to gain privileged access or access to any account or system not belonging to you on any
University system are expressly 
prohibited.
Creation of any program, Web form, and/or any other mechanism designed to gain privileged account information is
prohibited without the written 
permission of the Provost and Associate Vice President for Technology Services.
Computer and network accounts are assigned to each individual uniquely and are considered confidential in nature.
Individual accounts cannot be 
transferred to or used by another person. 
Given that access allows the User to
retrieve personal information of the individual assigned the account, sharing 
of accounts and/or passwords is not
permitted.
Each User is personally responsible for the proper use of his/her account including all activity associated with
his/her account. 
All illicit activity that can be traced to a User account will result in immediate termination of the
account until the investigation is complete. 
Users who do not safeguard their User names and passwords may lose
their access permanently, subject to the appropriate University judicial review.
Each system owner is responsible for the security of all systems he/she connects to the campus network
(WebbNet). 
Any system determined to cause 
network degradation and/or attacks others systems as a result of
malicious software, e.g. viruses, worms, Trojans, will be removed from the network 
immediately and without
notification until the system has been made secure.
No University-owned or private system attached to the WebbNet may be used as a vehicle to gain unauthorized
access to any other system whether on or off 
campus.
Anyone believing that a possible security lapse has occurred on any University technological resource or network
MUST report it immediately to 
the respective department chairperson/manager and to Technology Services. The
system and/or computer associated with the lapse should not be used until 
the problem has been investigated and
Home
 /Acceptable Use Policy
Sign In

cleared by the system administrator.
All Users must be aware that Gardner-Webb system administrators conduct periodic security checks of University
systems and networks. 
Additionally, 
outside agencies are annually contracted to assess and challenge the
University systems and network security to ensure a safe operating environment. 
As a result of the analysis, Users
may be required to change their passwords during their next log-in process where an easily guessed password has
been employed.
User files on a University server/system are kept as private as possible. 
Any attempts to access and/or read another
person's protected files will be treated with the utmost seriousness. 
System administrators will not override any file
protections unless deemed absolutely necessary in the performance of their duties, and will treat the contents of
those files as private and confidential information at all times. 
System administrators must make every effort to
communicate with the owner of the files in the event any file protection is overridden.
Requirement for faculty and staff. 
Lock your computer through the screen saver. 
If you need assistance please call
Technology Services at 4647.
In Windows 7 and Vista, right-click the desktop and select 
Personalize
. In earlier versions, right-click the desktop
and select 
Properties
.In Windows Vista, the Personalization window will be open. Select 
Screen Saver
.In Windows XP or 2000, the Display Properties window will be open. Select the 
Screen Saver
 tab.From the drop-down list, select a screen saver file.
In the "Wait:" field, set the amount of time you want the screen saver to wait for activity before starting. (No more
than 15 Minutes)
Depending on your version of Windows, check the appropriate box: 
On resume, display login screen On resume, password protect 
Password protected 
To set up your screen saver to automatically lock your computer: 
Click 
OK. From now on, when the screen saver comes on, your workstation will be locked.
Mac OS X also allows you to lock your screen when the screen saver becomes active. You will then have to enter
your password to regain access to your 
computer. To activate this feature:
From the Apple menu, select System Preferences
From the View menu, select Security.
In 10.6, check Require password... after sleep or screen saver begins, and choose how long the computer can be
asleep or the screen saver 
on before a password is required.
In 10.5 or 10.4, check Require password to wake this computer from sleep or screen saver.
To add an item to your menu bar that will allow you to quickly lock the screen and turn on the screen saver:
From your Applications folder, open your Utilities folder, and then open Keychain Access.
From the Keychain Access menu, select Preferences... . Under the General tab, check Show Status in Menu Bar.
The padlock icon will appear in your menu bar in the upper right corner of your screen. To lock your screen, click this
icon, and from the menu that appears, select Lock Screen.
Network and Computing Usage Policies:
No University system or network may be employed in a manner or purpose that violates University
statutes/regulations/policies and/or federal, state or 
local laws.
Any activity, malicious or otherwise, resulting in obstructing the operation and work activities that employ University
technological resources will not be tolerated. 
Activities include, but are not limited to, consuming gratuitously large
amounts of system resources (disk space, CPU time, network bandwidth), and/or crashing University servers or

individual machines.
Use or access of any University system by outside persons or agencies requires written permission from the Provost
Office and Technology Services 
to include payment of fees to the University and appropriate software vendors
where applicable.
Use of University technological resources, systems, and networks for commercial purposes is strictly prohibited
except where explicitly approved 
by the Provost. 
Such prohibited use includes, but is not limited to, development of
programs for commercial profit, data processing or computations for commercial use, and preparation/presentation
of for-profit advertising material. Posting of published works, workshops, presentations, etc., related to a faculty
member's area of teaching are exempt from this prohibition.
Frivolous, disruptive, and/or inconsiderate conduct including the access or use of pornography in any University
computer lab, multi-media, or other room including any office which employs technology is not permitted.
No University computing facility may be used for participating in computer gaming outside of academic
requirements.
Copying, storing, displaying, or distributing copyrighted material using University systems and/or networks without
express permission of the copyright owner, except as otherwise allowed under copyright legislation, is strictly
prohibited. 
Under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998, repeat copyright infringements by a User can result
in termination of the 
User's access to University systems and networks. Statutory damages for copyright
infringements range from $750 to $30,000 per infringement with willful infringements carrying potential damages up
to $150,000 plus attorney fees.
Tampering, reconfiguring, equipment removal, and physically accessing University network/computing resources
and/or wiring without express 
permission by Technology Services or Plant Operations is strictly prohibited. Such
action will be considered vandalism and/or theft and will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of University policy and
criminal law.
E-Mail Usage Policies:
Gardner-Webb University has established e-mail as a primary vehicle for official communications with enrolled
students and current faculty/staff.
Every enrolled student, and current faculty and staff member has an official Gardner-Webb University e-mail
address established and assigned by 
Technology Services. 
All University communications sent via e-mail will
be sent to this address. 
Faculty members will use the official University e-mail address to communicate
with a student registered in their classes. 
Additionally, all administrative offices using e-mail to correspond
with 
enrolled students will do so via this address.
Students are expected to check their official e-mail address on a frequent and consistent basis in order to stay
current with University communications. 
A student's failure to receive and read University communications delivered
to his/her e-mail address in a timely manner does not absolve the student from 
knowing and complying with the
content and instructions of such communications.
Students are allowed to forward their e-mail from their official University e-mail address to another provider, but do
so at their own risk. 
Gardner-Webb is not responsible for the handling of e-mail of other service providers. 
Having e-
mail forwarded does not absolve students from knowing and 
complying with the content of communications sent to
their official University e-mail address.
No e-mail may be sent or forwarded through a University system or network for purposes that violate University
statutes and/or regulations and constitutes an illegal or criminal action.
Electronic mail is considered private, confidential information and will be kept as private as possible. Attempts to
read another person's e-mail will be 
treated with the utmost seriousness. 
No University employee or system
administrator will read any mail unless deemed absolutely necessary in accordance with specific job requirements
or by judicial subpoena. 
The University makes every effort to respect e-mail privacy and adhere to state and federal

statues governing e-mail confidentiality. 
However, the University reserves the right to investigate virus and illicit
activity that can be introduced through e-mail systems. 
Additionally, if requested by the person assigned to the e-
mail account, Technology Services may enter the specific e-mail account to assist with problem identification and
resolution.
Users should be aware that deletion of electronic information will not erase such information from the system
storage until overwritten with other data. 
This can be result in the information residing in the University's network
either on various back-up systems/media until such time as the information is overwritten.
Nuisance e-mail or other on-line messages such as chain letters, obscene, harassing, and/or other unwelcome
messages are prohibited.
Unsolicited e-mail messages to multiple Users are prohibited unless explicitly used for University instruction and/or
business purposes. 
Exceptions are 
granted by the appropriate University authority.
All messages must show accurately from where and from whom the message originated, except in cases where
anonymous messages are invited.
Gardner-Webb reserves the right to refuse mail and other communications from outside hosts that send unsolicited,
mass or commercial messages, or 
messages that appear to contain virus and/or illicit material. 
The University will
refuse, filter and/or disregard such messages.
The email/MyWEBB account will be deleted no later than 5:00 pm the day of the employee's seperation from the
university. An email/MyWEBB account may remain active for a specified period of time upon the written request of
the employee's supervisor and the approval of the appropriate vice president or associate provost. The password for
the account will be changed so the employee no longer has access to the account. 
Requests should be submitted 
tothe Associate Vice-President of Technology Services.
This policy does not apply to terminated employees who are current or former students; their accounts will remain
active.
Retiring faculty may request their account remain active indefinitely; these requests should also be submitted in
writing to the Associate Vice-President 
of Technology Services and will be subject to approval by the Provost.
Gardner-Webb Electronic Academic Code:
This principle applies to works of all authors and publishers in all media. 
Respect for intellectual creativity and work
is vital to academic discourse and enterprise. It encompasses respect for the right to acknowledgment, the right to
privacy, and rights to determine the form, manner, and terms of publication and distribution.
Due to the volatility and ease of reproduction of electronic information, respect for the work and personal expression
of others is especially critical in computing environments. 
Violations of authorial integrity, including plagiarism,
invasion of privacy, unauthorized access, and trade secrets and copyright violations may lead to serious
consequences as deemed appropriate by respective University judicial review panels.
User Responsibilities:
Users of University technological resources, systems, and/or networks are responsible for what they do on the
network. 
Any illicit activity will be taken 
very seriously. 
Each User must maintain a current version of antivirus
software and stay current with any operating systems patch releases. 
The University 
employs software to ensure
that all computers accessing the network are compliant with this requirement, forcing Users to update to the current
applicable 
versions before allowing them to connect to the University network.
Users must respect and adhere to all University policies and federal, state, and local laws to include, but not limited
to, copyrights, intellectual property rights, and confidential information access. 
It is a violation of Gardner-Webb
policy to copy, distribute, share, download or update any copyrighted material without the express permission of the
copyright owner.

Users must respect network access and bandwidth requirements. 
Any User determined to be consuming excessive
bandwidth that negatively impacts the 
performance of University systems, users, and/or networks may be
disconnected from the network without warning.
Powered By LookingGlass | Copyright 2018
 
