HOME
POLICIES, STANDARDS & PROCEDURES
INFORMATION SECURITY
Information Security Policy
Acceptable Use Of CSULB Electronic Communications Systems And Services
Information Security And Privacy Program
Clean Desk And Clear Screen Standard
Electronic Data Security-Portable Devices And Removable Media
Employee Owned Electronic Computing Device And Storage Media
Electronic Media Sanitization Procedure
Password Standard
DOIT HOMESERVICESINFORMATION SECURITY
ACCESSIBLE TECHNOLOGY
CSULB
!Search"
ACCEPTABLE USE OF CSULB ELECTRONIC
COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS AND
SERVICES
A. Policy Statement
Electronic communications systems and services are essential to conducting
University business. The continued and reliable availability of these systems and
services are paramount to California State University, Long BeachÕs (University)
ability to fulÞll its mission of education, research, and public service. To this end, the
University uses, supports and provides electronic communications systems and
RECORDS MANAGEMENT
SAFE COMPUTING
SECURITY INCIDENTS
References: 
Executive Order 999: Illegal Electronic File Sharing and
Protection of Electronic Copyrighted Material
¥Issue Date:
 August 2007
¥Revision Date:
 N/A
¥Expiration Date: 
N/A
¥Web Links:
http://www.calstate.edu/EO/EO-999.html
https://www.csulb.edu/information-technology/information-security
¥
services for telecommunications, mail, education, and research.
The University encourages the use of electronic communications systems and
services for lawful purposes and makes them widely available to the university
community. Nonetheless, the use of electronic communications resources is limited
by restrictions that apply to all University property and by constraints necessary for
the reliable operation of electronic communications systems and services. The
University reserves the right to deny use of its electronic communications systems
and services, when necessary, to satisfy these restrictions and constraints.
The contents of all electronic communications systems and services shall conform to
CSU and CSULB policies and standards, state law and federal law including the
Copyright Act of 1976 and all subsequent amendments including, but not limited to,
the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 and the Teach Act of 2002.
All electronic communications systems and services intended to accomplish the
academic and administrative tasks of the University shall be accessible to users with
disabilities in compliance with law and University policies. Alternate
accommodations shall conform to law and University policies and standards.
B. 
General Provisions
A. PurposeThe purposes of this policy are to:
Ensure that University electronic communications systems and services are used
for purposes appropriate to the UniversityÕs mission;
¥Ensure that UserÕs privacy rights are protected;
¥Inform the University community about the applicability of laws and standards to
electronic communications;
¥Ensure that electronic communications system and services are used in
compliance with those laws and standards; and
¥Prevent disruption to and misuse of University electronic communications
¥
B. 
ScopeThis policy applies to:
C. DeÞnitionsTerms used in this Policy are deÞned in 
Appendix A
.C. Incidential UseUniversity users may use electronic communications systems and services for
incidental personal use provided that such use does not 1) interfere with the
UniversityÕs operation of electronic communications systems and services; 2)
interfere with the userÕs employment or other obligations to the University; 3)
burden the University with noticeable incremental costs; or 4) create a security risk
to the conÞdential or intellectual information maintained and protected by the
University. When noticeable incremental costs for personal use are incurred, users
shall be responsible for reimbursement to the University.
D. 
Prohibited UseUsers are prohibited from utilizing University electronic communications systems
and services for any unlawful, unethical or unprofessional purpose or activity.
systems and services.
All electronic communications systems and services, owned or managed by the
University or auxiliary organizations;
¥All electronic communications systems and services provided by the University or
auxiliary organizations through contracts or other agreements;
¥All users and uses of University electronic communications system and services ;
and
¥All University electronic communications records in the possession of University
employees or of other users of electronic communications system and services
provided by the University.
¥
Examples of prohibited use include but are not limited to:
University electronic communications system and services may not be used to:
A. circumvent legitimate copyright protections or illegally access, copy or disseminate
copyrighted material in any form including, but not limited to, print, music, video or
other multimedia content, that is not permitted under the principle of Fair Use;
B. 
distribute or duplicate copyrighted software without appropriate licensing agreements
or use of software in a manner inconsistent with the license; or
C. engage in peer-to-peer technology for non-business purposes. This includes, but is not
limited to, transfer of music, movies, software, and other intellectual property.
Transmission of threats, harassment or defamation
¥Download or distribution of material or programs that could be deemed harmful to
University electronic communications systems or services
¥Violations of any state of federal laws or any applicable CSU or CSULB policy or
regulation, including but not limited to, Rules of the Academic Senate, the Faculty
Code, the Faculty Handbook and Administrative Guidelines
¥Intentional access, viewing, download or dissemination of materials containing
obscene matter
¥Violation of software licensing agreements
¥Intentional damage to equipment, software or data
¥Commercial activities unrelated to the mission of the University. This includes
soliciting, promoting, selling, marketing or advertising products or services (e.g.
consulting services) or other revenue generating private business operations for
personal Þnancial gain. Disputes regarding a commercial activityÕs relatedness to
mission of the University shall be resolved by the University President or designee.
Campus auxiliary organizations are authorized to provide services and products to
students, faculty and staff, and invited guests of the University through operating and
service support leases.
The University President or designee may authorize additional limited commercial
uses under separate policy provisions and such uses are exceptions to the above
commercial use prohibitions.
¥
Illegal Þle-sharing and other copyright violations are a violation of Title 5 of the
California Code of Regulations.
E. 
PrivacyThe University recognizes that principles of academic freedom and shared
governance, freedom of speech, and privacy hold important implications for the use
of electronic communications systems and services. This Policy reßects these Þrmly-
held principles within the context of the UniversityÕs legal and other obligations. The
University respects the privacy of electronic communications in the same way that it
respects the privacy of paper correspondence and telephone conversations, while
seeking to ensure that University administrative records are accessible for the
conduct of the UniversityÕs business.
Limitations of PrivacyIt is not the intent of the University to examine or disclose electronic communication
records without the holderÕs consent. However, under limited circumstances as
described in this policy, the University may examine or disclose electronic
communications records without the holderÕs consent.
An electronic communication holderÕs consent shall be obtained by the University
prior to any access for the purpose of examination or disclosure of the contents of
University electronic communications record in the holderÕs possession, except as
provided below.
Access without ConsentThe University shall permit the examination or disclosure of electronic
communications records without the consent of the holder when (1) required by and
consistent with law; (2) when there is substantial reason to believe that violations of
law or of University policies have taken place; (3) when there are compelling
circumstances; (4) under time-dependent, critical operational circumstances; or 5) to
preserve records or information consistent with the University Litigation Hold
policy.

Automated MonitoringThe right to privacy does not preclude system administrators from maintaining and
monitoring system logs of user activity. Automated searches for Þles and
transmissions that endanger privacy, conÞdentiality of data, system security or
integrity are performed regularly to protect all users and ensure the continued
availability of University electronic communications systems and services. System
administrators may take appropriate actions in response to detection of such Þles or
transmissions.
Third Party Services
University contracts with outside vendors for electronic communications services
must explicitly reßect and be consistent with this Policy and other University policies
related to privacy. Any third party organization providing contractors to the
University shall be provided access to this policy for review prior to commencing
work for the University.
F. 
SecurityThe University makes reasonable efforts to provide secure and reliable electronic
communications systems and services. The University cannot ensure security of
data transmitted over the Internet. Information submitted via the Internet may not
be secure and could be observed by a third party while in transit. Submission of
passwords, credit card numbers or other personal information via the Internet could
result in identity theft.
Additionally, University Users and Public Users accessing the Internet should be
aware that the Internet permits access to non-University users who are not subject
to University policies, and may contain content materials, goods and services that
individual users may Þnd personally offensive or objectionable. The University does
not have the right or capability to monitor or restrict Internet content. Therefore,
the University disclaims any responsibility and liability for any conduct, content,
materials or goods and services available on or through the Internet.

G. Response to Policy Violations
When there is reason to believe that a violation of this policy has occurred, an
investigation shall be conducted. User access to electronic communications systems
and services may be temporarily suspended while an investigation is being
conducted.
If the investigation involves faculty or staff members and warrants University action,
an explanation of the causal events shall be reported to the appropriate Vice
President. In cases involving students, the OfÞce of Judicial Affairs and the Dean of
Students OfÞce shall be notiÞed. Investigating ofÞcials shall examine charges of
violations with due respect for individual privacy, the security of other users, and the
rights of due process.
Violations of University policy may result in sanctions, including but not limited to,
limitation or revocation of access rights and/or reimbursement to the University for
any expense related to the violation, including costs associated with the detection
and investigation of the violation, as well as from the violation itself. Violation of
applicable statutes may result in criminal prosecution.
Further Information
Information Security
iso@csulb.edu
562.985.4862
Approved by President Alexander
August 2007
Appendix A Ð DeÞnitions
Compelling Circumstances: 
Circumstances in which failure to act might result in
signiÞcant bodily harm, signiÞcant property loss or damage, loss of signiÞcant evidence, or
signiÞcant liability to the University or to members of the University community.
Electronic Communications: 
Any transfer of signals, writings, images, sounds, data or
intelligence that is created, sent, forwarded, replied to, transmitted, distributed,
broadcast, stored, held, copied, downloaded displayed, viewed, read, or printed by one or
several electronic communications systems. For the purpose of this policy, an electronic
Þle that has not been transmitted is not an electronic communication.
Electronic Communications Records: 
The contents of electronic communications
created, sent, forwarded, replied to, transmitted, distributed, broadcast, stored, held,
copied, downloaded, displayed, viewed, read, or printed by one or several electronic
communications systems or services. This deÞnition of electronic communications
records applies equally to attachments to such records and transactional information
associated with such records.
Electronic Communication Resources: 
Telecommunications equipment, transmission
devices, electronic video and audio equipment; encoding or decoding equipment,
computers and computer time, data processing or storage systems, computer systems,
servers, networks, input/output and connecting devices, and related computer records,
programs, software, and documentation that supports electronic communications
systems and services.
Electronic Communications Systems and Services: 
Any messaging, collaboration,
publishing, broadcast, or distributions system that depends on electronic
communications resources to create, send, forward, reply to, transmit, distribute,
broadcast, store, hold, copy, download, display, view, read, or print electronic records for
the purposes of communication across electronic communications network systems
between or among individuals or groups, that is either explicitly denoted as a system for
electronic communications or is implicitly used for such purposes.
Holder of an Electronic Communications Record or Electronic Communications
Holder: 
An electronic communications user who, at a given point in time, is in possession
or receipt of a particular electronic communications record, whether or not that

electronic communications user is the original creator or a recipient of the content of the
record.Matter: 
Any book, magazine, newspaper, or other printed or written material, or any
picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, or other pictorial representation, or any
statue or other Þgure, or any recording, transcription, or mechanical, chemical, or
electrical reproduction, or any other article, equipment, machine or material. 
Obscene Matter: 
DeÞned in Section 311 of the Penal Code as any matter, taken as a
whole, that to the average person, applying contemporary statewide standards, appeals
to the prurient interest, that, taken as a whole, depicts or describes sexual conduct in a
patently offensive way, and that, take as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or
scientiÞc value.
The prohibition regarding obscene matter does not apply to accessing, viewing,
downloading, or otherwise obtaining obscene matter for use consistent with legitimate
law enforcement purposes, to permit the university to conduct an administrative
disciplinary investigation, or for legitimate medical, scientiÞc, academic, or other
legitimate university purposes.
Possession of Electronic Communications Record:  
An individual is in possession of an
electronic communications record, whether the original record or a copy or modiÞcation
of the original record, when that individual has effective control over the location of its
storage or access to its content.  Thus, an electronic communications record that resides
on an electronic communications system awaiting download to an addressee is deemed,
for the purposes of this Policy, to be in the possession of that addressee. Systems
administrators and other operators of University electronic communications system and
services are excluded from this deÞnition of possession with regard to electronic
communication not speciÞcally created by or addressed to them.   Electronic
communications users are not responsible for electronic communications records in their
possession when they have no knowledge of the existence or contents of such records.
Substantial Reason:  
Reliable evidence indicating that violation of law or University
Policy has occurred, as distinguished from rumor, gossip, or other unreliable evidence.

Time-dependent, Critical Operational Circumstances:  
Circumstances in which failure
to act could seriously hamper the ability of the University to function administratively or
to meet its teaching obligations, but excluding circumstances pertaining to personal or
professional activities, or to faculty research or matters of shared governance.
University Electronic Communications Record:
  A Public Record in the form of an
Electronic communications record, whether or not any of the electronic communications
resources utilized to create, send, forward, reply to, transmit, distribute, broadcast, store,
hold, copy, download, display, view, read, or print the electronic communications record
are owned by the University.  This implies that the location of the record, or the location
of its creation or use, does not change its nature (i) as a University electronic
communications record for the purposes of this or other University policies, and (ii) as
having potential for disclosure under the California Public Records Act.
Until determined otherwise or unless it is clear from the context, any electronic
communications record residing on university-owned or controlled telecommunications,
video, audio, and computing facilities will be deemed to be a University electronic
communications record for purposes of this Policy.  This includes personal electronic
communications.  Consistent with the principles of least perusal and least action
necessary and of legal compliance, the University must make a good faith a priori effort to
distinguish University electronic communications records from personal and other
electronic communications in situations relevant to disclosure under the California Public
Records Act and other laws, or for other applicable provisions of this Policy. 
University Electronic Communications Systems and Services:  
Electronic
communications systems and services owned or operated by the University, auxiliary
organization or provided through contracts with the University or auxiliary organization.
Use of Electronic Communications systems and Services:  
To create, send, forward,
reply to, transmit, distribute, broadcast, store, hold, copy, download, display, view, read, or
print electronic communications with the aid of electronic communication systems and
services.  An electronic Communications user is an individual or organization who makes
use of electronic communications services. 
The act of receipt of electronic communications records as contrasted with actual

Select Language
!"Select Language
!"Select Language
!"   CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY 
LONG BEACH
1250 Bellßower Boulevard
Long Beach, California
 90840SERVICES
COLLEGES
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
#$%!viewing of the record by the recipient is excluded from the deÞnition of ÒuseÓ to the extent
that the recipient does not have advance knowledge of the contents of the electronic
communications record.
User:  
University students, faculty and staff, emeritus and employees of the UniversityÕs
auxiliary organizations who have legitimate access University electronic communications
resources.  Users may also be persons or organizations who have legitimate access to
University electronic communications resources under programs sponsored by the
University and authorized by the University President.

562.985.4111
