Information Technology
Anti-virus and So!ware OS
Update Requirement Policy
 PURPOSEThis rule is designed to help prevent infection of Western Michigan
University computers, networks, and technology systems by computer viruses
and other malicious code. This rule is intended to help prevent damage to
user applications, data, files, and hardware. 
SCOPE 
All  faculty, staff, students; as well as vendors, contractors, partners,
collaborators and any others doing business or research with the University
that involves access to University computers, networks and/or technology
systems, will be subject to the provisions of this rule.  Any other parties, who
use, work on, or provide services involving Western Michigan University
computers, networks, and technology systems will also be subject to the
provisions of this rule. 
RULE STATEMENTS
All computer devices connected to the Western Michigan University
network or networked resources shall have anti-virus software installed
and configured so that the virus definition files are current, routinely and
automatically updated. The anti-virus software must be actively running on
these devices.
All computers owned by the University and used by faculty and staff must
have the most recent version of anti-virus provided by the University
installed.
O!ice of Information Technology
Western Michigan University
Kalamazoo MI 49008-5206 USA
(269) 387-5430
All PC's are to be configured such that they schedule regular operating
system updates as provided by the vendor (Windows updates.
Macintosh systems are to be configured to schedule regular updates from
the software manufacturer (Apple security updates).
All files on computer devices will be scanned periodically for viruses. 
If deemed necessary to prevent propagation to other networked devices or
detrimental effects to the network or data, an infected computer device
may be disconnected from the University network until the infection has
been removed. 
Exceptions to this rule may be allowed if a computer device cannot have
anti-virus software installed.  Possible examples of this would be vendor-
controlled systems, or devices where anti-virus software has not yet been
developed.   In these cases, plan must develop to protect the device from
infection.
An exception may be granted if an infected computer device is discovered
that performs a critical function and may not be immediately taken off-line
without seriously impairing some critical business function.  Under those
circumstances, a plan will be developed to allow the computer device to be
taken off-line and the infection purged while protecting the function of the
device.
ANTI-VIRUS SOFTWARE
The University provides Symantec Endpoint Security anti-virus/anti-malware
software to faculty and staff members free of charge.  For students, MicroSoft
Security Essentials is available for the Windows environment and ClamXav is
available for the MacOS environment.  Both are available as free downloads.
Additional information
.ENFORCEMENT
When infected computers are discovered through routine scanning
proccesses, or reported to the Office of Information Technology, managers,
or owners, will be given until 5 p.m. that day to correct the problem or
remove the computer from the network. Information technology will
remove network access if the problem has not been corrected, and reserves
the right to remove any infected computer at any time should security of
University data or networks be compromised.
Any person found to have violated this rule will be subject to appropriate
disciplinary action as defined by current University policy, student code of

conduct,  and/or collective bargaining agreements.  This rule will not
supersede any Western Michigan University developed policies but may
introduce more stringent requirements than the University policy.
Note:
 These rules and requirements may be amended at any time by the
chief information officer of Western Michigan University consistent with
current collective bargaining agreements, University policies, and applicable
law.  Changes will be reviewed by appropriate University entities prior to
posting. 
DOCUMENT ACTION
Reviewed by: Campus Information Security Group, Nov. 2011
Reviewed by: LAN managers, Nov. 2011
Approved by: Campus Information Security Group, Jan. 2012
Modified by: Office of Information Technology, Feb. 2013 
Western Michigan University
Kalamazoo MI 49008-5200 USA
(269) 387-1000Contact WMU
© 2018 All rights reserved.

