Oklahoma State University Policy and Procedures
  APPROPRIATE USE POLICY
 3-0601 ADMINISTRATION & 
FINANCE
 Information Technology
 May 2017
  PURPOSE
  1.01 As an institution of higher learning, Oklahoma State University encourages, supports, and 
protects freedom of expression, the free exchange of ideas, and an open environment that facilitates 

the pursuit of scholarly inquiry. The purpose of this policy is t
o outline, in general terms, the 
University™s philosophy about acceptable use of information technology resources, with the 

overall objective of remaining consistent with other 
OSU 
A&M policies, and respecting the rights 
and obligations of academic freedom
 while protecting the rights of others.  
  1.02 As a public University, the resources of Oklahoma State University, discussed in this 
policy, are intended for use by users with no expectation of privacy. In this context, this policy 

addresses this intent and re
sponsibility of the University to the public. 
  SCOPE
  2.01 This policy applies to all University owned or controlled information technology resources 
whether individually controlled or shared, stand alone or networked.
  2.02 This policy applies to the use
rs of University information technology resources, whether 
such persons are students, staff, faculty, or authorized third
-party users.
  
2.03 This policy applies to all information technology resource facilities owned, leased, 
operated, or contracted by the
 University
  
2.04 This Policy applies equally to all University
-owned or University
-leased information 
technology resources.
  DEFINITIONS
  
3.01 A user is a person, whether authorized or not, who makes use of University information 
technology resources from
 any location.
  
3.02 Information technology resources 
Œ Technology and/or computer resources including, but 
not limited to, personal computers, workstations, mainframes, mobile devices (laptops, tablets, 

smart phones, etc.), printing equipment, and all ass
ociated peripherals and software, and electronic 
mail accounts, regardless of whether the resource is used for administration, research, teaching, or 

other purposes. 
 
3-0601.2  POLICY
  4.01 User Responsibility and Expectations
  
Within the following sections, examples of acts or omissions, though not covering every situation, 

are included to specify some of the responsibilities that accompany computer use at Oklahoma 

State University, and to outline acts or omissions that are cons
idered unethical and unacceptable, 
and which may result in immediate revocation of privileges to use the University's computing 

resources and/or just cause for taking disciplinary action up to and including discharge, dismissal, 

expulsion, and/or legal act
ion, which may include referral for criminal investigation and/or 
prosecution. 
  4.02  Use Purposes
 A. Appropriate use of OSU™s computing and networking resources includes purposes 

such as instruction, independent study, authorized research, independent re
search, 
communications and official work of the offices, units, recognized student and campus 

organizations of Oklahoma State University. University computing facilities, systems, 

accounts and network resources are to be used for University
-related activit
ies for 
which they are assigned. At all times, use of the University™s information technology 

resources must comply with federal and state law, and University policies. 
  
B. University information technology resources are not intended to be used for genera
ting 
or accessing obscene material as defined by Oklahoma or federal law and acceptable 

community standards or for creating a hostile work and/or educational environment. 
  
C. Incidental personal use of University information technology resources is permit
ted, 
but must not interfere with a user™s performance of official University business, result 
in direct costs to the University, expose the University to unnecessary risks, or violate 

applicable laws or other University or Board policy.  Users shall have n
o expectation 

of privacy in any personal information stored by a user on a University information 

technology resource, including University electronic mail accounts.  Storage of any 
electronic mail messages, voice messages, file, or documents created by in
cidental 
personal use by a user must be nominal.  
  4.03 Personal Devices and Systems
  Users who connect to the University™s information technology resources using privately owned 

personal computers, or other privately owned devices, consent to being scanned by the 

University™s scanning programs for security purposes, such as malicious netwo
rk traffic, while 

connected to those technology resources.
  
 
4.04 System Abuse and Disruptive Use
 A. Users are expected to report suspected illegal activity or abuse, especially if related to 

any damage to or problems with their files, to 
abuse@okstate.edu
 or Ethics Point. Any 
defects discovered in the system accounting or system security are to be reported, as 

3-0601.3 well, so that steps can be taken to investigate and solve the problem. The cooperation 
of all users is needed 
to ensure prompt action. System administrators are required to 

report suspected unlawful or improper activities to the proper University authorities. 

Users have an affirmative duty to cooperate with system administrators in 

investigations of system abuse. 
  
B. It is a violation of this policy to use the University™s information technology resources 

for transmitting political campaigning, commercial or personal advertisements, 

solicitations, promotions, or programs, to libel, harass, threaten, or without 

author
ization invade the privacy of other individuals. It is also a violation to use 
University information technology resources for the purpose of introducing a 

malicious program into the network, any server or any computer connected to the 

network. The use of 
any unauthorized or destructive program may result in legal civil 
action for damages or other punitive action by any injured party, including the 

University, as well as criminal action. This policy prohibits both the circumvention of 

mechanisms which prote
ct private or restricted information, systems, or networks, as 
well as use of University resources for unauthorized access to private or restricted 

systems or networks and/or damage to software or hardware components of those 

systems or networks. 
   C. Modify
ing or removing computer equipment, software, or peripherals without proper 
authorization is a violation of this policy. Users will use great care to ensure that they 
do not use programs or utilities which interfere with other users or which modify 

normall
y protected or restricted systems, networks or user accounts. It is inappropriate 
to encroach on others' use of the University's computers, via intended, unintended or 

negligent behaviors including but not limited to: sending of excessive electronic 

commun
ications (‚spam™), either locally or off
-campus; printing excess copies of 
documents, files, data, or programs; running grossly inefficient programs when 

efficient alternatives are known to be available; unauthorized modification of system 

facilities, oper
ating systems, or disk partitions; attempting to crash or tie up a 
University computer; damaging or vandalizing University computing facilities, 

equipment, software, or computer files. 
  
D. Interfering with the intended use of information resources or without
 authorization, 
destroying, altering, dismantling, disfiguring, preventing rightful access to or 

otherwise interfering with the integrity of electronic information and/or information 

systems are not all, but further examples of systems abuse. 
  4.05 User A
ccounts and Passwords
 A. The integrity of most systems is maintained by password protection of accounts. Users 

are responsible for assisting in the protection of the systems they use. The integrity 

and secrecy of an individual™s password is a key element of t
hat responsibility. The 
security of your user account is your responsibility. Users are responsible for ensuring 

account passwords are strong according to best practices and by not using:
 1. passwords from other accounts such as social media, external email, 
or other web 

sites
 
3-0601.4  2. dictionary words
  3. personal names
  
4. computer system names
  
5. adjacent keyboard combinations such as ‚qwerty™, ‚asdzxc™ or ‚12345™
  B. Users may use only their own computer accounts and are personally responsible for 

all use of their computer account(s). Users who have been authorized to use computing 

resources (by provision of a user account) may be subject to both criminal and civil 

liability, as well as University discipline, if the user discloses a password or otherwise 
makes those resources available to others without the permission of the system 

administrator. 
  
C. Gaining, or attempting to gain access to the account of another user eit
her by using 
programs or devices to intercept or decode passwords or similar access control 

information or by using any other means is prohibited. The negligence or naiveté of 

another user in revealing an account name or password is not considered authoriz
ed 
use. Convenience of file or printer sharing is not sufficient reason for sharing a 

computer account. Intentionally allowing or assisting others to gain unauthorized 
access to information technology resources is prohibited, regardless of whether the 

comp
uter, software, data, information, or network in question is owned by the 
University. Abuse of the networks to which the University belongs or the systems at 

other sites connected to those networks will be treated as an abuse of Oklahoma State 

University i
nformation technology resources privileges.
  4.06 System Logging, Reviews, Privacy
 A. Users of the University™s information technology resources are placed on notice that 

all computer systems maintain audit logs and/or file logs within the computer and that 

user information is backed up periodically. Information collected and stored may 

include, but is not limited to, user identification, date and time of the session, software 

used/accessed, files used/accessed, internet use and access, when requested and 

deem
ed necessary. The University reserves the right to view or scan any file or 
software stored on the computer or passing through the network, and will do so 

periodically to verify that software and hardware are working correctly, to look for 

particular kinds
 of data or software (such as computer viruses), or to audit the use of 
University resources. For example, analysis of audit files may indicate why a 

particular data file is being erased, when it was erased, and what user identification 

has erased it.
  
B. Use
rs should be aware that information transmitted via the Internet may be intercepted 
by others. Accordingly, the privacy of electronic mail, voicemail and similar data 

should not be presumed. With regard to all information system data, users should also 

be 
aware that the University, as an agency of the State of Oklahoma, and as its officers 

3-0601.5 and employees, are subject to the provisions of the Oklahoma Open Records Act, 51 
Okla. Stat. § 24A.1, et seq.
  4.07 Additional Responsibilities
 Some departments may have
 additional use restrictions and it is the user™s responsibility to adhere 
to them. Individual units within the University may define "conditions of use" for information 

resources under their control. These statements must be consistent with this overall P
olicy but may 
provide additional detail, guidelines and/or restrictions. Such policies may not relax or subtract 

from, this policy.
  
4.08 Email Use
 A. General Purpose Use
 1. As with other University resources, electronic mail (email) is made available to 

faculty, staff and students, to further the teaching, research, service, and 

Extension/outreach goals and mission of the University.  Use of University email 

services, therefo
re, is intended to be in furtherance of such goals and mission.  
Incidental personal use of electronic mail is permitted, but must not interfere with 

a user™s performance of official University business, result in direct costs to the 

University, expose the
 University to unnecessary risks, or violate applicable laws 
or other University or Board policy.  Users shall have no expectation of privacy 

in any personal information sent, received, or stored by a user using University 
electronic mail accounts.  Storag
e of any electronic mail messages created by 
incidental personal use by a user must be nominal.    
  
2. Users shall respect the purpose and charters of electronic mailing lists (including 

local or network news groups and social media). It is the responsibilit
y of any 
user of an electronic mailing list to determine the purpose of the list before 

sending messages to the list or receiving messages from the list. Persons 

subscribing to an electronic mailing list will be viewed as having solicited any 

material deli
vered by the list as long as that material is consistent with the purpose 

of the list. Persons sending to a mailing list any materials which are not consistent 

with the purpose of the mailing list will be viewed as having sent unsolicited 

material to the m
ailing list.
  
3. Graduates and retirees are granted life
-long use of their institutional email 
accounts with the understanding that they will adhere to the same policies and 

procedures which apply to students, faculty and staff. This privilege can be 

revoked 
by the University if use of the account results in a violation of policies 
or procedures, or if the account is needed for business continuity by the area 

which it served. 
  
B. Reporting Offensive Email
 The University provides email services to the University 
to support the academic and 

administrative activities, and email is used as an official form of communication. As 

members of the University™s community, all users are expected to demonstrate good 

taste and sensitivity to others in their communications.  Ho
wever, the University cannot 

3-0601.6 protect individuals against the existence or receipt of material that may offend them, 
and users are warned that they may willingly or unwillingly come across, or be 

recipients of, material they find offensive. To report materi
al received via email, send 
a complaint to 
abuse@okstate.edu
 or Ethics Point.
  C. University Access to User Email
 
1. Users should be aware that the University, as an agency of the State of Oklahoma, 

as well as its officer
s and employees, are subject to the provisions of the 
Oklahoma Open Records Act.  There is no privacy associated with use of 

University email resources. The University owns, and has right of access to, for 

any purpose, the contents of all computing informa
tion transmitted through or 
stored on its systems. The University may access and disclose any, or all, of the 

following:
 a. Data transmitted through or stored on its electronic mail and Internet access 

systems, regardless of the content of the data,
  
b. Information related to the use of electronic communication.
  2. If an occasion arises when a University officer or supervisor believes that access 

to an individual's email account is required for the conduct of University business, 

the University individual i
s not available (i.e., death, disability, illness or 
separation from the University), and a system administrator is required to access 

the individual's email account, the following procedure shall be followed:
 a. The University official or supervisor shall se
cure permission to access the 
email account from the Provost and Senior Vice President (Provost) or the 

designee of such officer.
  
b. If the Provost approves the request, he/she will provide written authorization 

to the Information Security Officer (ISO), who
 will direct the system 
administrator to access the email account.
  
c. When email communications from a specific individual™s University email 

account are requested by a third party pursuant to the Oklahoma Open 

Records Act, as part of an internal University 
investigation, or pursuant to 

court order or other legal proceeding, the University may, when reasonable 

and allowed by law, make a reasonable and timely effort to notify the 

individual whose email account is accessed. However, the University is not 

requir
ed to make such notification.  
  
D. Email Content Classification
 It is the responsibility of email users to follow the OSU Data Classifications Policy 

regarding email content classification and restrictions, protections, or other applicable 

limitations on ema
il distribution and storage. 
  
4.09 Digital Media Communications / Social Media Use
 A. Digital Media Defined
 
3-0601.7  This section applies to any faculty, employee or associate involved in creating, 
contributing to or distributing University
-related information via digital media 
communication channels often times referred to as Social Media platforms. The term 

digital med
ia refers to any communications facilitated by technology. This can include 
online channels, phone/app
-based communications and more. 
  B. Professional and Personal Use
 1. The University utilizes social media technologies to enhance more direct 

communications wi
th its faculty, staff, students, alumni, and prospective students.  
  
2. University employees that use social media should use caution when using their 

personal social media accounts for business purposes. Specifically: 
 a. Individuals should not use their perso
nal account to act or be perceived as 

acting as representatives of a University, their college, school division, etc. 

unless given the expressed authority to do so by University Communications.  

This will help prevent the perception that published personal
 content is an 
expression of an official University position.  See OSU Policy 1
-0103, Use 
of University Name, for more information.
   
b. Individuals should never share proprietary or confidential information or 

comment on anything related to legal matters wit
hout the appropriate 
approval. 
   
c. Content shared via social media platforms must also adhere to OSU and OSU 

A&M policies and procedures as well as state and federal regulations, 

including though not limited to, FERPA, HIPAA, PCI DSS and NCAA 

limitations
  
C. Registering Digital Media Accounts
 1. Any person that would like to register a digital media account on behalf of an 

OSU
 A&M organization, department or college must request access to the official 
registration form and work with the Office of Communications t
o ensure accounts 
are set up properly. All registered digital media accounts also must adhere to the 

Digital Media Policy above and University Social Media Guidelines. 
  
2. For questions concerning the use of OSU trademarks, including the OSU logo, 

please vis
it, 
https://trademarks.okstate.edu/
.  4.10 Network Usage
 Excessive or inappropriate use of the network and network resources may result in network access 
restriction, revocation of access privileges entirely, or further
 sanctions covered in Section 
4.12 regarding Non
-Compliance. 
 A. Prohibited Devices on Network
  
3-0601.8 1. Users of University information technology resources, specifically those using 
the University™s network are authorized to use only network devices
 authorized 
by the campus Information Technology department. Specifically, prohibited 

devices include, but are
 not limited to, hubs, switches, repeaters, routers, network 
modems and wireless access points. These devices may be incorrectly configured 

or incompatible with the University network causing outages and reliability 

problems to all or part of the network. 
Devices not approved for use on the 

network will be disabled to ensure the stability and availability of the network.
  
2. For more information on network use, reference the OSU Network Policy at 

it.okstate.edu/policies.
  4.11 Software Licenses and Copyrights
 A. Softw
are Licenses
 Violating any software license agreement or copyright, including copying or 

redistributing copyrighted computer software, data, or reports without proper, 

recorded authorization is prohibited. Software protected by copyright shall not be 

copie
d except as specifically stipulated by the owner of the copyright. Protected 
software is not to be copied into, from, or by any University facility or system, except 

by license. The number and distribution of copies must be handled in such a way that 

the n
umber of simultaneous users in a department does not exceed the number of 
original copies purchased by that department, unless otherwise stipulated in the 
purchase contract.
  B. General Use of Copyright Material
 1. All users of University technology resources ar
e required to abide by and comply 
with all state and federal laws governing
 software license,
 leasing, or copyright 
agreements. 
  
2. More information on copyright compliance can be found through the United 

States copyright Office, the Copyright Clearance Center, or the OSU A&M 

Libraries Copyright pages.
  4.12 Non
-Compliance
 Violations of this policy may result in immediate revocation of priv
ileges to use the University's 
computing resources and/or just cause for taking disciplinary action up to and including discharge, 

dismissal, expulsion, and/or legal action, which may include referral for criminal investigation 

and/or prosecution.
 
 
 
 
 
Appr
oved
: E-Team, June 2017
 Board of Regents, June 2017
 
