Appropriate Use of Information Technology Resources
 
IT
-
01
 

 


 
Scope
 

 
Policy Statement
 

 
Reason fo
r Policy
 

 
Procedures
 

 
Definitions
 

 
Sanctions
 

 
History
 
About This Policy
 
Effective dates:
 
05
-
23
-
2006
 
Last updated:
 
08
-
17
-
2011
 
Responsible University Office:
 
Information Policy Office
 
Responsible University Administrator:
 
Office of the Vice President for Information Technology & Chief Information Officer
 
Policy Contact:
 
University Information Policy Office,
 
uipo@iu.edu
 
Policy Feedback:
 
If you have comments or questions about this policy, Let us know with the
 
policy 
feedback form
.
 
Print or view a PDF of this policy
 
Many policies are quite lengthy. Please check the page count before deciding 
whether to print.
 
Scope
 
This policy applies 
to all users of Indiana University information technology resources 
regardless of affiliation, and irrespective of whether those resources are accessed from 
on
-
campus or off
-
campus locations.
 
Back to top
 
Policy Statement
 
Unless otherwise specified in this policy or other university policies, use of Indiana 
University information technology resources is restricted to purposes related to the 
university'
s mission of research and creative activity, teaching and learning, and civic 
engagement. Eligible individuals are provided access in order to support their studies, 

instruction, duties as employees, official business with the university, and other 
univers
ity
-
sanctioned activities. Individuals may not share with or transfer to others their 
university accounts including network IDs, passwords, or other access codes that allow 
them to gain access to university information technology resources.
 
Indiana Univers
ity technology resources may not be used in a manner that violates the 
law, for private commercial activities that are not approved by the university, for 
personal private gain, or for political campaigning and similar activities that are 
inconsistent with
 
the university's tax
-
exempt status.
 
Campuses, schools, colleges, departments, and other administrative units have 
considerable latitude in developing complementary technology use policies and 
procedures, as long as they are consistent with this policy and
 
any other applicable 
technology use policies of the university. Such policies may be more restrictive than 
university policy, but must not be more permissive.
 
Incidental personal use is an accepted and appropriate benefit of being associated with 
Indiana 
University's rich technology environment. Appropriate incidental personal use of 
technology resources does not result in any measurable cost to the university, and 
benefits the university by allowing personnel to avoid needless inconvenience. 
Incidental pe
rsonal use must adhere to all applicable university policies. Under no 
circumstances may incidental personal use involve violations of the law, interfere with 
the fulfillment of an employee's university responsibilities, or adversely impact or conflict 
wit
h activities supporting the mission of the university.
 
Back to top
 
Reason for Policy
 
Computers, network systems, and other technologies offer powerf
ul tools for creating, 
communicating, and managing data, and for a host of other activities. Taxpayers, 
students, and other groups providing sources of funding that support information 
technology resources at Indiana University expect that these assets wil
l be used in 
support of the university's mission of research and creative activity, teaching and 
learning, and civic engagement. In addition, the university and its constituents expect 
that information technology resources at Indiana University will be use
d in a lawful 
manner.
 
Back to top
 
Procedures
 
Determination of relation to mission
 
If the relationship of a use of information technology resources t
o the university's 
mission is unclear, the University Information Policy Office (UIPO) or regional 
campus Chief Information Officers (CIOs) will coordinate with campus 

administration and the unit involved. These groups will determine whether the 
activity i
s an appropriate use of university information technology resources and 
supports the mission of the university.
 
Determination of incidental personal use
 
The senior management of each university department or other administrative 
unit is authorized to defin
e and publish the acceptable level and nature of 
incidental personal use by members of the unit. An employee's supervisor may 
require the employee to cease or limit any incidental personal use that hampers 
job performance or violates university policy. Uni
versity technology service 
providers will always place a higher priority on support of university
-
related 
activities over any form of incidental personal use.
 
Consultation
 
The University Information Policy Office (UIPO) and/or regional Chief Information 
Of
ficers (CIOs) are available to provide consultation or advice related to 
technology use or misuse to any university, campus, or unit administrators or 
individual personnel.
 
Back to top
 
Definitions
 
Commercial activities
 
are defined as economic activities geared toward a mass or specialized market 
and ordinarily intended to
 
result in a profit, and that are not part of one's 
university responsibilities. Commercial activities do not include the use of 
information technology resources for one
-
time, minimal transactions, such as 
students using their Indiana University email acco
unts to communicate with 
potential buyers for used textbooks or with potential sub
-
lessees. This type of 
transaction is considered incidental personal use.
 
Incidental personal use
 
is the use of information technology resources by members of the Indiana 
Uni
versity community in support of activities that do not relate to their university 
employment or studies or to other activities involving and approved by the 
university. Examples include use of email to send personal messages to friends, 
family, or colleagu
es, including messages relating to one
-
time minimal sales or 
purchase transactions, and use of the personal home page service to provide 
information about personal hobbies or interests. If personal use adversely affects 
or conflicts with university operati
ons or activities, the user will be asked to cease 
those activities. All direct costs (for example, printer or copier paper and other 
supplies) attributed to personal incidental use must be assumed by the user.
 
Information technology resources
 
includes all
 
university
-
owned computers, peripherals, and related equipment and 
software; voice communications infrastructure, peripherals, and related 
equipment and software; data communications infrastructure, peripherals, and 
related equipment and software; all oth
er associated tools, instruments, and 
facilities; and the services that make use of any of these technology resources. 
The components may be individually controlled (i.e., assigned to an employee) or 

shared in a single
-
user or multi
-
user manner; they may b
e stand
-
alone or 
networked; and they may be stationary or mobile.
 
Personal private gain
 
is defined as securing profit or reward for an individual in his or her personal 
capacity, that is not otherwise permitted by this policy.
 
Political campaigning and sim
ilar activities that are inconsistent with the university's tax
-
exempt status
 
include campaign purposes that would further the interests of the candidate or 
candidates of any one political party.
 
Regional campus Chief Information Officer
 
The primary respon
sibility of a regional campus Chief Information Officer is the 
development and use of information technology in support of the campus's vision 
for excellence in research, teaching, outreach, and lifelong learning. He or she 
also is responsible for dissemin
ating information to the campus, coordinating 
activities that involve more than one campus, fostering cooperation in areas such 
as sharing technical expertise and training, and coordinating response and 
resolution of problems on their own campus involving 
information technology 
issues.
 
University Chief Information Officer
 
The primary responsibility of the University Chief Information Officer is the 
development and use of information technology in support of the university's 
vision for excellence in research
, teaching, outreach, and lifelong learning. The 
University Information Policy Office (UIPO) represents the University Chief 
Information Officer (CIO) with respect to policy issues related to the IU 
Bloomington and IUPUI campuses.
 
Back to top
 
Sanctions
 
Indiana University will handle reports of misuse and abuse of information and 
information technology resources in accordance with existing policies and
 
procedures 
issued by appropriate authorities. Depending on the individual and circumstances 
involved this could include the offices of Human Resources, Vice Provost or Vice 
Chancellor of Faculties (or campus equivalent), Dean of Students (or campus 
equiva
lent), Office of the General Counsel, and/or appropriate law enforcement 
agencies. See policy
 
IT
-
02, Misuse and Abuse of Information Technology Resources for 
more d
etail
.
 
Failure to comply with Indiana University information technology policies may result in 
sanctions relating to the individual's use of information technology resources (such as 
suspension or termination of access, or removal of online material); the 
individual's 
employment (up to and including immediate termination of employment in accordance 
with applicable university policy); the individual's studies within the university (such as 
student discipline in accordance with applicable university policy); 
civil or criminal 
liability; or any combination of these.
 

Back to top
 
History
 

 
Reviewed December 2011.
 

 
Revised August 17, 2011: changed titles in
 
San
ctions
 
section to more accurately 
reflect current usage.
 

 
Revised March 4, 2010: enhancing language in
 
Sanctions
 
section
 

 
Approved: May 23, 2006
 

 
Interim: September 5, 2000
 
 

