ASU System Policy
 
 
 
Effective Date: 
 
March 4, 2011
 
 
Subject:  Appropriate Use of Information & Technology Resources 
 
 
 
1.
 
Purpose
 
 
 
Arkansas State University System (University) invests substantial and sufficient 
resources to acquire 
and operate information technology (IT) assets, such as 
hardware, software, and Internet connections.  The University has a responsibility to 
manage its resources in the most efficient and effective manner possible and in 
compliance with all laws, regulati
ons, and sound business practices, while at the 
same time protecting and preserving the right to academic freedom.  Effective 
management of information technology resources will assure students, faculty, and 
staff adequate access to information and technol
ogy over the long term.  The 
following regulations are established to define acceptable uses of 
information 
technology 
resources, and to assure that information technology resources promote 
the basic functions of the University in teaching, learning, resea
rch, administration, 
and public service.  These regulations apply to any entity or individual accessing the 
Arkansas State University information technology infrastructure and associated 
resources.
 
 
2.
 
Definitions
 
 
IT Resources
.  These are the computers, t
erminals, 
kiosks, 
printers, networks, 
telecommunications systems, networked peripherals, online and offline storage 
media and related equipment, software, and data files that are owned, leased, 
managed, or maintained by Arkansas State University.  For exam
ple, IT Resources 
include institutional and departmental information systems, faculty research 


 

 
 
IT Orga
nization.  
The unit on each campus responsible for providing information 
technology solutions and services.
 
 
User

University IT Resource from any location.  For example, Users in
clude a person who 
accesses IT Resources within the confines of the University plant or via an 
electronic network.
 

University Community

who is not classified as a member of the faculty (full
-
 
or
 
part
-
time), staff (full
-
 
or part
-
time) or enrolled student.
 
 
Systems Authority
.  Arkansas State University delegates oversight of particular 
systems to the head of a specific unit of the University or to an individual faculty 
member, in the case of IT res
ources purchased with research or other funds for 
which he or she is personally responsible.
 
 
Systems Administrator
.   A Systems Authority may designate another person as 

Syst
ems Administrators oversee the day
-
to
-
day operation of the system and are 
authorized to determine who is permitted access to particular IT Resources.
 
 
Certifying Authority
.  This is the Systems Administrator or other University 
authority who certifies the 
appropriateness of an official University document for 
electronic publication in the course of University business.
 
 
Specific Authorization
.  This means documented permission provided by the 
applicable Systems Administrator.
 
 
3.
 
Arkansas State University S
ystem Appropriate Use of Information & 
Technology Resources Policy 
 
 
Information and Technology Resources may be used only for their authorized 
purposes 

 
that is, to support the research, education, administrative, and other 
functions of Arkansas State Un
iversity. 
 
 
4.
 
Process
 
 
Although this policy sets forth the general parameters of appropriate use of IT 
Resources, faculty, students, and staff should consult their respective handbooks 
and campus operating procedures for more detailed statements on permit
ted use 
and the extent of use that the University considers appropriate in light of their 
varying roles within the community.  In the event of conflict between other guidelines 
and the System Appropriate Use of Information & Technology Resources Policy, th
e 
Appropriate Use Policy will prevail.
 
 
 
A.
 
Proper Authorization.  
 
 
 
Users are entitled to access only those IT Resources that are consistent with 
their authorization.  Access is limited to members of the University Community, 
faculty, staff, students, an
d other specifically authorized individuals.
 

 
B.
 
Ownership.  
 
 
 
 
All data stored on University IT Resources is owned by the University.  
Intellectual Property rights will, of course, be recognized as established by policy.
 
 
 
C.
 
Privacy.  
 
 
 
Users agree to
 
access only data that they are authorized to use and/or view.  
Privacy in an electronic environment should never be assumed and cannot be 
guaranteed.  Because Arkansas State University is a state agency, all electronic 
communications and documents are pre
sumed to be subject to the Freedom of 
Information Act.
 
 
 
D.
 
 
Specific Proscriptions on Use.  
 
 
 
 
The following categories of use are inappropriate and prohibited:
 
 
1.
 
Use in violation of law.  Illegal use of IT Resources 

 
that is, use in violation 
of civi
l or criminal law or regulation at the federal, state, or local levels 

 
is 
prohibited.  Examples of such uses are: promoting a pyramid scheme, 
accessing or distributing illegal material, copyright infringements, and making 
terroristic 
threats.
 
 
 
With resp
ect to copyright infringements, Users should be aware that copyright 
law governs (among other activities) the copying, display, and use of software 
and other works in digital form (text, sound, images, and other multimedia).  
The law permits use of copyrig
hted material without authorization from the 
copyright holder for some educational purposes (protecting certain classroom 

automatically mean that the use is permitted without autho
rization.
 
 
 
2.
 
Use that impedes, interferes with, impairs, or otherwise causes harm to the 
activities of others.  Users must not deny, attempt to deny, or interfere with 

mailing l

(spreading email or postings widely and without good purpose), or flooding an 
individual, group, or system with numerous or large email messages.  Other 
behavior that may cause excessive network
 
traffic or computing load is also 
prohibited.
 
 
3.
 

University is a non
-
profit, public service organization and, as such, is subject 
to specific federal, state, and local laws regard
ing sources of income, political 
activities, use of property, and similar matters.  As a result, commercial use of 
IT Resources for non
-
University purposes is generally prohibited, except if 
specifically authorized and permitted under University conflict
-
o
f
-
interest, 

outside employment, and other related policies.  Prohibited commercial use 
does not include communications and exchange of data that furthers the 

of whether it has 
an incidental financial or other benefit to an external 
organization.  Commercial advertising is strictly prohibited unless authorized 
by contract with the commercial vendor.
 
 
Utilization of IT Resources in a way that suggests University endorsement of 
any
 
political candidate or ballot initiative is also prohibited.  Users must refrain 
from using IT Resources for the purpose of lobbying that connotes University 
involvement.
 
 
4.
 
Harassing or threatening use.   This category includes, for example, repeated 
un
welcome contacts with another.
 
 
5.
 
Use damaging the integrity of University or other IT Resources.  This 
category includes, but is not limited to:
 
 
a.
  
Attempts to defeat system security.  Users must not defeat or attempt to 

 

 

guessing or applying the identification or password of another User, or 
compromising system/data security mechanisms.  (This provision does 
not prohibit, however, 
the IT Organization 
or Systems Administrators from 
u
sing security 
related 
programs within the scope of their Systems 
Authority.)
 
 
b.  Unauthorized access or use.  The University recognizes the importance of 
preserving the integrity of data stored by individuals in IT Resources.  
Users must honor this princi
ple by neither seeking to obtain unauthorized 
access to IT Resources, nor permitting or assisting any others doing the 
same.  For example, a non
-
University organization or individual may not 
use non
-
public IT Resources without specific authorization.  Priv
ately 
owned computers may be used to provide public information resources, 
but such computers may not host sites or services for non
-
University 
organizations or individuals across the University network without specific 
authorization.  Similarly, Users are
 
prohibited from accessing IT 
Resources that they are not authorized to access.  Furthermore, Users 
must not make or attempt to make any deliberate, unauthorized changes 
to data on an IT System.  Users must not intercept or attempt to intercept 
or access d
ata communications not intended for that user, for example, by 

tapping phone or network lines.
 

c.  Disguised use
.  
Users must not conceal their identity when using IT 
Resources, exce
pt when the option of anonymous access is explicitly 
authorized.  Users are also prohibited from masquerading as or 
impersonating others or otherwise using a false identity.
 
 
d.  Distributing computer viruses.  Users must not knowingly distribute or 
launch
 
computer viruses, worms, or other rogue programs.
 
 
e.  Modification or removal of data or equipment.  Without specific 
authorization, Users may not remove or modify any University
-
owned or 
administered equipment or data from University property or IT Reso
urces.
 
 
f.  Use of unauthorized devices.  Users must not physically or 
electronically 
attach any additional device to the IT infrastructure or related resources
 
that impedes, interferes, or otherwise causes harm to the IT infrastructure 
or related resource
s
.
 
 
6.
 
Use in violation of external data network policies.  Users must observe all 
applicable policies of external data networks when using such networks.
 
 
E.
 
University Access.  
 
 
 
In accordance with state and federal law, the University may access all as
pects of IT 
Resources, without the consent of the User.  Such access will be made in 
circumstances including but not limited to the following:
 
 
 
1.
 
When necessary to identify or diagnose systems or security vulnerabilities and 
problems, or otherwise preser
ve the integrity of the IT Resources; or
 
 
 
2.
 
When authorized by federal, state, or local law or administrative rules; or
 
 
3.
 
When there are reasonable grounds to believe that a violation of law or a breach 
of University policy may have taken place and acc
ess and inspection or 
monitoring may produce evidence related to the misconduct; or
 
 
 
4.
 
When such access to IT Resources is required to carry out essential business 
functions of the University; or
 
 
 
5.
 
When required to preserve public health and safety
 
an
d/or system or data 
integrity or user privacy
.
 
 
 
University access without the consent of the User will occur only with the 
approval of the appropriate 
v
ice 
c
hancellor, or their respective delegates, except 
when an emergency entry is necessary to preserve 
the integrity of facilities or to 
preserve public health and safety.  The University, through the Systems 
Administrators, will log all instances of access without consent.  Systems 

Administrators will also log any emergency entry within their control for 
s
ubsequent review by appropriate University authority.  
 
 
 
In addition to accessing the IT Resources, the University, through the 

whether or not the User is suspected of any violation
 
of this policy, when 
necessary to preserve the integrity of facilities, user services, or data.  The 
Systems Administrator will attempt to notify the User of any such action.
 
 
 
By attaching privately owned personal computers or other 
devices 
to the 
Univer

security purposes of those resources while attached to the network.
 
 
 
Most System
s
 
Administrators routinely log user actions in order to facilitate 
recovery from system malfunctions a
nd for other management purposes.  All 
Systems Administrators are required to establish and post procedures 
concerning logging of User actions including the extent of individually identifiable 
data collection, data security, and data retention.
 
 
 
Encrypted
 
files, documents, and messages may be accessed by the University 
under the above guidelines.
 
 
F.
 
Enforcement Procedures 
 
 
1.
 
Complaint of Alleged Violations.  An individual who believes that he or she has 
been harmed by an alleged violation of this 
p
olicy
 
may file a complaint in 
accordance with established University grievance procedures (including, where 
relevant, those procedures for filing complaints of sexual harassment or of racial 
or ethnic harassment) for students, faculty, and staff.  The individua
l is also 
encouraged to report the alleged violation to the Systems Authority overseeing 
the facility most directly involved, or to the 
IT Organization 
which must 
investigate the allegation and (if appropriate) refer the matter to University 
disciplinary a
nd/or law enforcement authorities.
 
 
 
2.
 
Reporting Observed Violations.  If an individual has observed or otherwise is 
aware of a violation of this policy, but has not been harmed by the alleged 
violation, he or she may report any evidence to the Systems Au
thority overseeing 
the facility most directly involved, or to the 
IT Organization
, which must 
investigate the allegation and (if appropriate) refer the matter to University 
disciplinary and/or law enforcement authorities.
 
 
3.
 
Disciplinary Procedures.   All
eged violations of this policy will be pursued in 
accordance with the appropriate disciplinary procedures for faculty, staff, and 
students, as outlined in the applicable Handbook.
 

Systems Administrators and the 
IT Organization 
may participate in the 
disci
plinary proceedings as deemed appropriate by the relevant disciplinary 
authority.  Moreover, at the direction of the appropriate disciplinary authority, 
Systems Administrators, and the Information and Technology Services unit are 
authorized to investigate 
alleged violations.
 
 
4.
 
Legal Liability for Unlawful Use.  In addition to University discipline, Users may 
be subject to criminal prosecution, civil liability, or both for unlawful use of any IT 
Resources.
 
 
5
.
 
Appeals.  Users found in violation of this pol
icy may appeal or request 
reconsideration of any imposed disciplinary action in accordance with the 
appeals provisions of the relevant disciplinary procedures.
 
 
 
(Adopted by the Arkansas State University Board of Trustees on 
March 4, 2011, 
Resolution 1
1
-
 
0
3 
supercedes Arkansas State University
-
Jonesboro Appropriate Use of 
Information and Technology Resources Policy (Appropriate Use Policy) of March 8, 
2002.)
 

