 AR 10:1
 Page 
1 of 
9          
    Administrative Regulation 
10:1   Responsible Office:
  Chief Information Officer
   Date Effective: 
 6/04/2008
  Supersedes Version:  
3/18/1993
  Policy Governing Access To and Use of University Information 
Technology Resources
   Major Topics
 Confidentiality
 Security
 Information Technology Users™ Privileges and Responsibilities
 System Administrator Responsibilities
 Violations
 Appeals
 Glossary
  I. Introduction
 Computers, network systems, and other associated technologies offer powerful tools for 
creating, 
communicating, and managing data, and for a host of other activities.  Taxpayers, students, and other 
groups providing sources of funding that support information technology resources at the University expect 
that these assets will be used in sup
port of the University™s mission of instruction, research and other 
creative activity, and service.
  The University expects all individuals using information technology resources to take appropriate measures 
to manage the data stored on technology resource
s.   The University is expected to preserve and protect 
administrative data transmitted and stored on its systems and comply with applicable federal and state 

legislation.
  The University generally does not monitor or restrict the content of material trans
mitted, stored, or posted on 
University
-owned information technology resources , but reserves the right to limit or remove access to its 
networks and to material posted on its computers, when applicable University regulations, contractual 

obligations, or s
tate or federal laws are violated.  Individuals who use University technology resources and 
email for any work
-related or personal matters do not acquire an absolute right of privacy for data, 
documents and communications transmitted or stored on Universit
y information technology resources
.  II. Scope
 
 AR 10:1
 Page 
2 of 
9  A. This policy applies to users of University information technology resources irrespective of whether those 
resources are accessed from on
-campus or off
-campus locations.  Persons having the following 
affiliations with the University are eligible to access a
nd use the University™s information technology 
resources: 
  1. Current faculty and staff, including post
-doctoral fellows; 
  2. Currently enrolled students (including undergraduate, graduate, and non degree students);
  
3. Upon request, retired faculty and 
staff, and their surviving spouses or sponsored dependents; 
  4. Upon request, spouses or sponsored dependents of faculty or staff who become deceased while 
employed by the University; 
  
5. Certain persons affiliated with external agencies collaborating with the University; and 
  6. Any other person authorized by the Vice President for Information Technology or designee to use 
University information technology resources. 
  An individual™s acc
ess to specific resources shall be limited due to University licensing or contract 
limitations.
  For groups 3, 4, and 5, access is generally limited to electronic mail.  If resources become constrained, 
this practice may be reviewed and may be restricted o
r eliminated in favor of allocating required 
resources to uses by active faculty, students, and staff.  Unless eligible though another affiliation, alumni 

of the University are not eligible to access and use University information technology resources, exc
ept 
when such resources are available to the general public.  
  
B. This policy applies to all University information technology resources, including:
  1. Data and other files, including electronic mail and voice mail, stored in individual computer accounts
 on University
-owned centrally
-maintained systems; 
  2. Data and other files, including electronic mail or voice mail stored on departmentally
-maintained 
systems;  
  3. Data and other files, including electronic mail and voice mail, stored in individual co
mputer accounts 
on systems managed by the university on behalf of affiliated organizations; 
  4. Data and other files, including electronic mail or voice mail, stored on personally
-owned devices on 
University property (e.g., residence hall rooms);
  5. Data
 and other files, including electronic mail or voice mail stored on University
-owned systems 
assigned to a specific individual for use in support of job functions; and 
  
6. Telecommunications (voice or data) traffic from, to, or between any devices describ
ed above
.   III. Confidentiality
  A. In general, information stored on information technology resources is considered confidential, whether 

protected by the computer operating system or not, unless the owner intentionally makes that 
information available to other groups or individuals.  The U
niversity assumes that individual users wish 
the information they store on central and campus shared information technology resources to remain 

confidential.  Requests for disclosure of confidential information may be reviewed by the senior 

 AR 10:1
 Page 
3 of 
9  administrator o
f the information technology systems involved.  Such requests shall be honored only 
when approved by the University officials authorized by the University, or when required by state or 
federal law.  Except when inappropriate or impractical, computer users 
shall receive prior notice of such 
disclosures.
  B. Free expression of ideas is central to the academic process.  The University acknowledges the 
importance of the diversity of values and perspectives prevalent in an academic institution, and is 
respectful
 of freedom of expression of ideas.  The University does not condone censorship nor does it 
endorse the inspection of electronic files or monitoring of network activities related to individual 

activities. 
  C. Legitimate reasons for persons other than the 
account holder to access computer files, computers, or 
network traffic, or to disclose data to third parties, include:      
  1. Ensuring the continued integrity, security, or effective operation of University systems; 
  2. Protecting user or system data; 
  3. Ensuring continued effective departmental operations; 
  
4. Ensuring appropriate use of University systems; 
  
5. Satisfying a legal obligation; 
  6. Complying with the Kentucky Open Records Act; 
  
7. Complying with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 
for E
-Discovery; or 
  8. Health and safety emergencies. 
  D. In any case where it becomes necessary for persons other than the account holder to access computer 
files or computers or network traffic for one or more of the purposes outlined above, all reaso
nable 
attempts shall be made to limit the access to the related purpose and to preserve confidentiality of any 

personal identifiers.
  IV. Security
   A. Although the University takes reasonable measures to protect the security of its information technology 
resources and accounts assigned to individuals, the University does not guarantee absolute security.  
  
B. The University helps users of its central and
 campus shared information technology resources to protect 
the information they store on those resources from accidental loss, tampering, unauthorized search, or 
other access.  In the event of inadvertent or non
-malicious actions resulting in the loss of o
r damage to 
information, or the invasion of the user™s identity or privacy, the University™s information technology 
department shall make a reasonable effort to mitigate the loss or damage.  
  C. The University provides industry
-standard security on Univer
sity maintained systems.  Users are 
responsible for properly safeguarding the information technology resources under their control, specific 
to files associated with their computer accounts.  
  D. Users may request that arrangements be made to protect info
rmation stored on such resources.  These 
requests may be honored at the discretion of the unit that manages the resources.
  
 AR 10:1
 Page 
4 of 
9  V. Information Technology Users™ Privileges and Responsibilities
  A. The University grants access to its information technology 
resources to an individual solely for the 
individual™s own University mission
-related use.   User access shall not be transferred to or shared with 
another without explicit written authorization by the Vice President for Information Technology, a 
designee,
 or the appropriate system administrator.
  
B. All users of University information technology resources are expected to exercise common sense and 
decency, including due respect for the rights of others in public areas.
  
C. User access to information technol
ogy resources is contingent upon prudent and responsible use, which 
includes following appropriate security measures. The user shall not use information technology 

resources to violate any state or federal laws, Governing Regulations and Administrative Reg
ulations, 
Code of Student Conduct, Human Resources Policy and Procedures, or Rules of the University Senate.  
Incidental personal use is an accepted and appropriate benefit of being associated with the University™s 
technology environment.  The senior manag
ement of each unit is authorized to determine the nature 
and amount of incidental personal use by members of the unit.  An employee™s supervisor may require 
the employee to cease or limit any incidental personal use that hampers job performance, adversely 
affects or conflicts with University operations or activities, or violates University policy.  All direct costs 
(for example, printer or copier paper and other supplies) attributed to personal incidental use shall be 
assumed by the user.
  D. The user shall
 not use information technology resources for any individual commercial purpose or for 
personal gain, except as approved pursuant to other applicable University regulations, or approved by 

the Vice President for Information Technology, or a designee.
  E. Information technology resources shall be shared among users in an equitable manner.  The user shall 
not participate in any behavior that unreasonably interferes with the fair use of information technology 

resources by another.
  F. Information technology re
source users shall facilitate computing in the University environment by:
  
1. Regular deletion of unneeded files from one™s accounts on central or shared machines in 
accordance with the University™s record retention policy. 
  2. Refraining from overuse of 
information storage space, printing facilities, or processing capacity, and 
interactive network connections.
   VI. System Administrator Responsibilities
 A. Both University and departmental system administrators of information technology resources are 
respo
nsible for the security of information stored on those resources, for making appropriate information 
on security procedures available to users of those systems, and for keeping those systems free from 
unauthorized access.  Administrators of departmental an
d individual information technology resources 
shall not implement any policy or procedure that is less restrictive than University requirements.
  
B. University and departmental system administrators are prohibited from removing any information from 
individ
ual accounts unless the system administrator finds that:
  1. The presence of the information is illegal (e.g. copyrighted material, software used in violation of a 
license agreement, or child pornography);
  
 AR 10:1
 Page 
5 of 
9  2. The information in some way endangers Universi
ty information technology resources or the 
information of other users (e.g. a computer worm, virus, or other destructive program); or
  3. The information is inappropriate because it is unrelated to or is inconsistent with the mission of the 
University, is 
in violation of University policy, or is otherwise not in compliance with the legal and 
ethical usage responsibilities listed in the Information Technology Usage Policy. 
  4. Equipment is being transferred from one unit to another, or when equipment is dec
lared surplus.  In 
this case, all files shall be wiped clean from the hard drives before the transfer occurs.  See: 
http://www.uky.edu/Regs/BPM/E
-12-4.pdf
.    5. An employee leaves the unit™s employment 
or a student discontinues their enrollment at the 
University.  In this case, the individual™s computer account may be inactivated or files may be wiped 
clean from the hard drives.
  
C. Departmental system administrators (or University system administrators)
 may access or permit access 
to the resources described above, if he or she:
  1. Has written (verifiable email or paper) permission from the individual to whom the account or device 
or communication has been assigned or attributed; 
  
2. In an emergency 
situation, has a reasonable belief that a process active in the account or on the 
device is causing or will cause significant system or network degradation, or could cause loss or 
damage to system or other users data; or
  
3. Receives a written request from
 the senior executive officer of a department to access the account 
of a staff or faculty member who is deceased, terminated, transferred, or is otherwise incapacitated 

or unavailable for the purposes of retrieving material critical to the operation of the
 department.
  D. University system administrators may access or permit access to the resources described above, if he 
or she:
  1. Receives a court order or direction from University Counsel;  
  2. Receives a written authorization from the appropriate execu
tive vice president or Provost, for 
situations where there is reasonable belief that the individual to whom the account or device is 
assigned or owned has perpetrated or is involved in violations of University policy using the 
accounts or device in questio
n; or
  3. Receives a written request from the Dean of Students, for situations where there is a reasonable 
belief that a student to whom the account or device is assigned or owned has perpetrated or is 
involved in illegal activities, or is in violations of
 University policy using the accounts or device in 
question.
  VII. Violations
  A. Legitimate use of an information technology resource does not extend to whatever an individual is 
capable of doing with it.  Just because an individual is able to circumvent 
restrictions or security, does 
not mean that the individual is permitted to do so.  
  Alleged violations of this policy can be reported directly to the Office of the Vice President for 
Information Technology. If the person responsible is not affiliated wit
h the University, or cannot be 
identified, the incident should be reported to 
itresourceabuse@uky.edu
.    
 AR 10:1
 Page 
6 of 
9  B. Examples of Violations  
   Violations generally consist of downloading or posting to University computers, or transporting across 
University networks, material that is illegal, proprietary, in violation of University policies or contractual 
agreements, or otherwise is damaging to th
e institution.  Examples of specific violations include, but are 
not limited to: 
  1. Sharing passwords or acquiring another's password without prior written authorization from 
University Technology Services or the appropriate system administrator;
  
2. Una
uthorized accessing, using, copying, modifying, or deleting of files, data, user ids, access rights, 
usage records, or disk space allocations;
  3. Accessing resources for purposes other than those for which the access was originally issued, 
including inapp
ropriate use of authority or special privileges;
  4. Copying or capturing licensed software for use on a system or by an individual for which the 
software is not authorized or licensed. Misappropriation of data or copyrighted materials, including 
computer 
software, may constitute theft;
  
5. Use of information technology resources for remote activities that are unauthorized at the remote 
site;
  6. Causing computer failure through an intentional attempt to "crash the system," or through the 
intentional introd
uction of a program that is intended to subvert a system, such as a worm, virus, 
Trojan horse, or one that creates a trap door;
  7. Intentional obscuring or forging of the date, time, physical source, logical source, or other header 
information of a messag
e or transaction;
  8. Interception of transmitted information without prior written authorization from University Technology 
Services or the appropriate system administrator;
  9. Failure to reasonably protect one's account from unauthorized use (e.g., leav
ing one's terminal 
publicly logged on but unattended);
  10. Violation of priorities for use of information technology resources as established by an individual 
facility within the University system;
  11. Excessive use of information technology resources, e
specially when it impedes the mission
-related 
activities of other users, or adversely affects system availability or performance; 
  12. Use of information technology resources for individual commercial activities that are not approved by 
the University, fo
r personal private gain, or for political campaigning and similar activities that are 
inconsistent with the University™s tax
-exempt status;  
  13. Violation of software license agreements, including making more copies of licensed software than 
the license 
allows (i.e. software piracy); or
  
14. Sending a crippling number of files across the network (e.g. email ﬁbombingﬂ or ﬁspammingﬂ).
   VIII. Response, Investigation, and Sanctions
  A. Response
 
 AR 10:1
 Page 
7 of 
9   1. In the event that University officials are notified of alleg
ed misconduct or illegal activity on the part of 
a member of the University community, after consultation with Human Resources or the Dean of 
Students and Legal Counsel, contents of an individual™s e
-mail, other computer accounts, office 
computer, or netwo
rk traffic may be copied and stored to prevent the destruction and loss of 
information, pending formal review of that material. 
  2. Except when inappropriate or impractical, efforts will be made to notify the involved individual prior to 
accessing the com
puter account or device, or before observing network traffic attributed to them.  
Where prior notification is not appropriate or possible, efforts will be made to notify the involved 

individual as soon as possible after the access. 
  B. Investigation of Al
legations
   1. When the Vice President for Information Technology, a designee, or the appropriate university 
system administrator has reason to believe that a violation of this policy may have occurred, he or 
she may initiate an investigation and suspend t
echnology privileges for the individual(s) involved, 
pending further investigation.  
  2. If significant University sanctions are imposed, such action, together with an explanation of the 
causal events, shall be reported by the Vice President for Informati
on Technology or the appropriate 
system administrator to the Dean of Students, in case of students; or, to the Provost or appropriate 

executive vice president for all others.
  C. Sanctions
  1. University sanctions are imposed by the appropriate University 
authority and may include, but are 
not limited to, limitation or revocation of access rights, and reimbursement to the University for the 
technology and personnel charges incurred in detecting and proving the violation of these rules, as 
well as from the v
iolation itself.  Reimbursement may include compensation for staff work time 
related to the violation and for archiving information related to the incident.  
  2. Disciplinary actions as defined in the Code of Student Conduct, Human Resources Policy and 
Procedures, and Administrative and Governing Regulations, and Rules of the University Senate may 
also include any combination of disciplinary action, or civil or criminal liability.  The usual rights and 

privileges of appeal apply.  
  
3. Violation of this 
policy may also result in the University referring the violation to the appropriate state 
or federal agency.  Violations of KRS 434.840 (Kentucky statutes dealing with unlawful access or 
use of a computer) shall be referred to the Commonwealth Attorney or 
the police for investigation 
and prosecution.  Similarly, violations of 18 U.S.C. Sec.1030 (Federal laws related to unlawful 
access or use of a computer) shall be referred to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
  IX. Appeals
  A. In cases where a user's technology privileges are limited or revoked by Information Technology, a user 
may request a review of the action.  The review shall be conducted by Information Technology 
according to established procedures.  
  B. In cases where a 
user™s information is removed by Information Technology or the departmental system 
administrator, a user may appeal the removal through the relevant administrative process appropriate to 
the status of the user (i.e., faculty, staff or student).
   
 AR 10:1
 Page 
8 of 
9  X. Glossa
ry Access right
:  permission to use University information technology resources according to appropriate 
limitations, controls, and guidelines.
  Commercial purpose
:  activities by an individual or department where the goal or end involves the buying 
and/or
 selling of goods or services for the purpose of making a profit.  
  Data
:  a representation of facts, concepts, or instructions suitable for communication, interpretation, or 
processing by human or automatic means.
  E-Discovery
:  a generic term used to en
compass how the legal world of litigation, regulation, and criminal 
investigation searches, collects, preserves, processes, and produces electronic files.  E
-Discovery is 
governed by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. 
  Equitable use
:  use of information technology resources in accordance with this policy and with the rules of 
an individual University facility; use of information technology resources so as not to unreasonably interfere 
with the use of the same resources by others. 
  File:  a collection of data treated as a unit.
  Incidental Personal Use
: use of information technology resources by members of the University community 
of support of activities that do not related to their university employment or studies or to other activities 
involving and approved by the university.  Examples include use o
f email to send personal messages to 
friends, family, or colleagues, including messages relating to one
-time minimal sales or purchase 
transactions, and occasional use of the web to gain information about personal interests.  
  Information Technology Resou
rces
 :   information technology devices (personal computers, printers, servers, 
networking devices, etc.), computing systems and applications, involved in the processing, storage, and 
transmission of information.  
 Kentucky Open Records Act
:  a state law t
hat requires public records to be made available to any person 
who requests them, subject to certain exemptions.
  Password:
  a string of characters that a user shall supply to meet security requirements before gaining 
access to a particular technology reso
urce.
  Prudent and Responsible Use
:  use of information technology resources in a manner that promotes the 
efficient use and security of one's own access right(s), the access rights of other users, and University 

information technology resources.
  Remote A
ctivity
:  any technology action or behavior that accesses remote site facilities via a University 
information technology resource.
  Remote site
:  any information technology/network equipment, facility or service not part of, but connected 
with, University 
information technology resources via a communications network.
  Software Piracy
: unauthorized duplication, distribution or use of someone else™s intellectual property, 
including computer software, constitutes copyright infringement and is illegal and subje
ct to both civil and 
criminal penalties. 
  Sound Recording Piracy:
 another form of copyright infringement is the unauthorized duplication or 
distribution of sound recordings. Federal copyright law grants the copyright owner in a sound recording 
(typically,
 a record company) the exclusive rights to reproduce, adapt, distribute, and in some cases, 

 AR 10:1
 Page 
9 of 
9  digitally transmit the owner™s sound recordings.   Sound recording piracy is illegal and subject to both civil 
and criminal penalties. 
  System Administrator
:  any 
individual authorized by the Vice President for Information Technology, the 
Provost or appropriate executive vice president, or a designee to administer a particular technology 
hardware system or its system software.
  User:
  
an individual, including student, faculty, staff, or individual external to University, who uses University 
information technology resources.
  User id:
  a character string that uniquely identifies a particular user to a University technology resource.
   XI.
 References
 and Related Materials
 US Code 
18 U.S.C. Sec.1030
 Fraud and related activity with computers
  KRS 434.840
 Definitions
  BPM E
-12-4 Property Disposition Section
   Revision History
 AR II
-1.7
-2: 
 3/18/1993
   For questions, contact: 
Office of Legal Counsel
 
