  3341-6-7 BGSU
 Information Technology
.   Applicability
  All University units
  Responsible
 Unit
  The 
Vice President for Finance and 
Administration
  Policy
 Administrator
  The Office of 
the Chief Information Officer
  
(A)
 Policy Statement and Purpose
  
Bowling Green State University provides information technology 

resources to support the academic, administrative, educational, research 

and service missions of its appropriately affiliated 
members within the 

margins of institutional priorities and financial capabilities. 
 The 

information techno
logy resources provide for the u
niversity, a conduit for 

free and open forum for the expr
ession of ideas mindful of the u
niversity 
core values. 
 In or
der to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and 
availability of information technology resources for intended purposes, the 

following policy has been developed. 
   (B)
 Policy
 Scope
  The scope of this policy is to encompass all information t
echnology 
devices owned by the u
niversity, any device
 obtaining connectivity to the 
university
 network, and all u
niversity relevant data on these devices.
  
(C)
 Policy 
  
(1)
 All usage of information technology resources is to be consistent 

with all other relevant policies at
 BGSU.
  (2)
 Users must be aware of and comply with all Federal, State, local, 

and other applicable laws, contracts, regulations and licenses.
  (a)
 US Code
  
3341-6-7  2  (b)
 Ohio Revised Code
  (c)
 Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA)
  (d)
 Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA)
  (e)
 Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA)
  (f) Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
  (g)
 Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act 
(HIPAA)
  (h)
 Gramm
-Leach
-Bliley Act (GLBA)
  (i)
 House Bill 104
  (3)
 Use of information technology to access resources other than
 those 
supporting the academic, administrative, educational, research and 

service missions of the University or for more than limited social 

purposes is prohibited.
 
 
(a)
 Information technology is provided to access resources 

supporting the academic, 
administrative, education, 

resear
ch and service missions of the u
niversity.  Use of the 
provided information technology res
ources is to be mindful 
of the u
niversity core values.  Use of information 

technology for experimental use or limited social purposes
 is permitted, as long as it does not violate other policies or 

interfere with operations of 
the u
niversity.
  (b)
 The legitimate use of information technology resources 

does not extend to whatever is technically possible.  

Although some limitations are built i
nto computer 

operating system and networks, those limitations are not 

the sole restrictions on what is permissible.  Users must 

abide by all applicable restrictions, whether or not they are 

built into the operating system or network and whether or 

not they
 can be circumvented by technical means.
  
3341-6-7  3   (c)
 Network applications and protocols that are not essential to 
carrying out the mission of the university or to conduct 
university business are neither specifically permitted nor 

specifically prohibited.  Should suc
h a subsidiary 
application or protocol become
 a risk to the security of the 
university's information technology infrastructure, its use 

will be restricted or blocked as deemed appropriate or 

necessary, without prior notice.
 
 (4)
 All users must only access or a
ttempt to access information 
technology resources that they are authorized to use and then only 

in a manner and to the extent authorized.
  (a)
 Ability to access information technology resources does 

not, by itself, imply authorization to do so.  Prior to 

accessing a resource, users are responsible for ascertaining 

and properly obtaining necessary authorization.  Accounts, 

passwords, and other aut
hentication mechanisms, may not, 
under any circumstances, be shared with, or used by, 

persons other than those to whom 
they have been assigned 

by the u
niversity.
  A violation of this policy may result in disciplinary action, 

up to and including termination
 of employment.
  (5)
 Attempting to circumvent information technology security systems 

is prohibited.
  (a)
 BGSU employs various technologies and procedures in the 

interest of protecting the confidentiality, availability, and 

integrity of information technology.  Some examples of 

these technologies and procedures, include, but are not 

limited to, physical method
s, firewalls, anti
-virus software, 
encryption, and passwords.  Circumvention or attempted 

circumvention of a security 
system creates a threat to the 

university and is not permitted.
  A violation of this policy may result in disciplinary action, 

up to and i
ncluding termination of employment.
  
3341-6-7  4  (6)
 Disruption of 
university authorized activities is prohibited.
  (a)
 All members of the BGSU community share the 
information technology resources provided by BGSU.  

Those causing disruption to the use of information 

technolog
y resources for other community members will be 
in violation of this policy.  Some examples include, but are 

not limited to, configuration of devices that disrupt network 

services, launching denial of service attacks, and disturbing 

public access resources
.  (7)
 Use of information technology to conduct reconnaissance, 

vulnerability assessments, or similar activity by unauthorized 

personnel is prohibited
.  (a)
 In an effort to protect the confidentiality, availability, and 

integrity of information technology resource
s, BGSU 
officials will investigate any discovered unauthorized 

network reconnaissance, vulnerability scanning, or service 

enumerations.  While it is recognized that there are some 

valid purposes for this activity, BGSU officials are unable 

to determine int
ent and must react in a manner that will 

best protect information technology resources by assuming 

that the source of scans are malicious.  Additionally, many 

vulnerability scanning tools utilize techniques that may be 

disruptive if not properly used.  Ple
ase contact the ITS 
Information Security Office for authorization to conduct 

vulnerability or service assessments using BGSU 

information technology resources.
  (8)
 Users are required to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and 

availability of information te
chnology.
  (a)
 This responsibility includes practicing safe computing at all 

times when deploying or using BGSU information 

technology resources.  Users are to care for the integrity of 

technology based information sources they are authorized 

to access and to 
ensure that information is shared only with 

other appropriately authorized users.
  
3341-6-7  5  (9)
 Anonymous use, impersonation, or use of pseudonyms on an 
information technology resource to escape accountability is 

prohibited.
  (a)
 Examples of this include, but are not limit
ed to, forging 

email or using any Internet s
ervice not affiliated with the 
university that can prevent accountability for its usage.
  
(10)
 The use of any unlicensed spectrum space is prohibited on any 

BGSU
-owned or BGSU
-occupied property, unless it is part of the 
wireless services being deployed by the 
university.
  (a)
 Information Technology Services (ITS) has implemented 

wireless Local Area Netw
ork (LAN) services on the BGSU 
main campus and the Firelands campus.  While this service 

allows mobility and easier access to the BGSU network, it 

means that the air space on campus now serves as a 

medium for network connectivity.  The use of open air 

spac
e poses a number of potentially difficult situations for 

both users and network administrators.  Users that may 

need to make use of wireless equipment for special 

purposes such as research or other unique applications must 

contact the Technology Support Ce
nter within ITS to 
coordinate this use of wireless air space.
  (11)
 Responsibilities
  
(a)
 University Responsibilities
  
(i)
 Provide and coordinate information technology 

resources to allow completion of duties as assigned 

in support of the academic, administrative, 

educational, research, and service missions, within 

the margins of institutional priorities and financial 

capabilities
.  (ii)
 Communicate, review, update, and enforce policies 

to protect information technology resources
.  (iii)
 Take reasonable measures to mitigate se
curity 

threats
. 
3341-6-7  6   (b)
 User Responsibilities
  (i)
 Read, agree to, and abide by all u
niversity policies 
and policy updates
.  (ii)
 Practice safe computing when using information 

technology resources
.  (iii)
 Notify u
niversity officials upon discovery that an 
assigned information 
technology resource has been 

accessed, attempted to be accessed, or is vulnerable 

to access by unauthorized users
.  (iv)
 Users are responsible for activity resulting from 

their assigned information technology resources
.  (12)
 Security and Privacy Statement 
  BGSU 
respects the privacy of all info
rmation technology users.  
The u
niversity does not routinely monitor the content of material 
but does reserve the right to access and review all aspects of its 

information technology infrastructure to investigate performance
 or system problems, search for harmful programs, or upon 

reasonable cause, to determine if a user is violating a policy, State 

or Federal law.  BGSU monitors, keeps, and audits detailed records 

of information technology usage; traces may be recorded routi
nely 
for trouble shooting, performance monitoring, security purposes, 

auditing, recovery from system failure, etc.; or in response to a 

comp
laint, in order to protect the u
niversity's and others' 
equipment, software, and data from unauthorized use or tampe
ring.  
Extraordinary record keeping, traces and special techniques may 

be used in response to technical problems or complaints, or for 

violation of law, policy or regula
tions, but only on approval by 
university administrators specifically authorized to giv
e such 
approval.  In addition to the privacy of individuals being respected 

under normal circumstances, the privacy of those involved in a 

compl
aint will be respected and the u
niversity will limit special 
record keeping in order doing so, where feasible.  
Information will 
be released in accordance with law.  Users 
should be aware that 

while the u
niversity implements various security controls to protect 

3341-6-7  7  information technology resources, protection of data from 
unauthorized individuals cannot be guaranteed.
  (13)
 Enforcement and Sanctions 
 
 
Individuals or entities in violation of the BGSU Information 

Technology Policy will be referred to the appropriate disciplinary 

authority for review.  Access privileges may be suspended without 

prior notice if it is determined t
hat a policy violation is causing a 

current or imminent threat to the confidentiality, integrity, or 

availability of information technology resources.  
  
A violation of this policy may result in disciplinary action, up to 

and including termination of emplo
yment.
  (14)
 Implementation of Policy 
  This policy replaces the Information Technology Services Network 

and Computer Policies and the Acceptable Use Policy for 

Information Technologies and is authorized by the Office of the 

Chief Information Officer (CIO) and 
has been approved by the 

appropriate university committee(s).
 This policy may be 
supplemented with additional published guidelines by campus 

units that are authorized to operate/control their own information 

technology resources provided such guidelines ar
e consistent with 
and supplemental to this policy and do not alter its intent.
  
(15)
 Related Policies 
 
 
(a)
 Codes of Student Conduct, BGSU Copyright Policy, 

Administrative Staff Handbook, Classified Staff Handbook, 

Intermittent Classified Staff, Retirees Handbook, 
Academic 
Charter
  
Registered Date: March 17, 2015
 
Amended Date
s: March 31, 2016
, December
 22, 2017 
