  3341-6-6 BGSU E
-Mail Account
.   Applicability
  All University units
  Responsible
 Unit
  The 
Vice President for Finance and 
Administration
  Policy
 Administrator
  The 
Office of the Chief Information Officer
  
(A)
 Policy Statement and Purpose
  ITS will only
 issue email accounts to individuals that meet the eligibility 
requirements. ITS will only issue one personal email account to each 

eligible individual.
  
ITS is responsible for issuing official BGSU email accounts. ITS has
 established eligibility requirements for email accounts to manage and 

secure the computing environment. By limiting account privileges to 

people that meet the eligibility requirements, ITS is better able to allocate 

resources to individuals actively worki
ng on 
university projects. ITS is 
also better able to identify and locate people that have misused computing 

facilities.
  (B)
 Policy
  An individual must have 
a current affiliation with the u
niversity. 
Affiliations include u
niversity employees (faculty and 
staff), currently 
enrolled students, retirees, Alumni and guests. Guest account requests are 

evaluated by ITS on a case
-by-case basis.
  
An individual must acquire a BGSU authentication account prior to 

requesting other server accounts.
 
 
An individual must 
agree to abide by the policies and re
sponsibilities 

outlined in the u
niversity™s Acceptable Use Policy
.  
(1)
 Email Addresses
 
3341-6-6  2  ITS 
has rules and standards for email usernames and the 
corresponding email addresses.
  (a)
 Background
  
Individuals can acquire an email account upon 
meeting 

university affiliation requirements. When registering for an 

email account, the client must choose a username. This 

username will be used for all server accounts (including 

email) that the individual re
quests throughout his or her 
affiliation with 
the u
niversity.
  
Different server systems have different username 

requirements. Due to the broad use of this username, ITS 

has established rules and standards for usernames to meet 

the requirements of the vario
us u
niversity server systems.
  (b)
 Details
  
Individuals requesting an email account will choose from a 

list of available usernames. These usernames will be 

derived from the client™s first, middle, and last names. The 

requestor must select a username from the c
hoices 

provided. ITS will not accommodate requests for special or 

ﬁvanityﬂ usernames.
  
Usernames will not be available for selection by new 

subscribers until the previous owner™s email account has 

been deleted for at least three months. This is done to hel
p avoid confusion when messages meant for the original 

owner of the username are sent to the new owner.
  
If a client leaves the university for an extended period and 

his or her account is terminated, ITS cannot guarantee that 

the account username will be a
vailable if that client returns 

to the university at a later date.
  (2)
 Username Changes
  
3341-6-6  3  ITS will only change a client™s username when a client has legally 
changed their name. This also changes the client™s username for 

other server accounts.
  
(a)
 Background
  
As part of the email account acquisition process, a client is 

required to choose a single unique username from a list of 

available options derived from their first, middle and last 

names. This unique username is then used as the account 

name for every serv
er account provided to the client. To 
minimize administrative overhead and to assure accurate 

record keeping, ITS has established strict rules for initiating 

a username change.
  (b)
 Details
  
ITS will accept requests for changing a client™s username if 

the clie
nt presents ITS with proof of a legal name change. 
The client should have their name changed on the 

Administrative Computer Systems (Human Resources 

and/or Student Information System) before requesting a 

username change. ITS will then process the username 

change and change all server account names assigned to 

that client.
  
ITS cannot change an individual™s name on the 

Administrative Computer Systems. The client must make 

this request through Registration and Records
  (3)
 Office Accounts
  
Departments and offices
 can obtain office email accounts for 
business correspondence. Multiple individuals within the 

department can access these accounts to process the incoming 

mail.
  
(a)
 Background 
  
The u
niversity provides email as a tool for conducting the 
business of 
departments, academic offices
, and ultimately 

3341-6-6  4  the u
niversity. Office accounts are intended to streamline 
the operations of departments and offices by providing 
accounts for group use. These accounts allow multiple 

individuals within a department to access 
and respond to 

incoming mail. These office accounts also allow the 

departments to advertise an email address that corresponds 

to a department or function, rather than an individual. 

These accounts are intended to minimize the impact of 

staffing changes and
 absences and eliminate the need for 
one person to access another individ
ual™s email account to 

perform u
niversity business.
  (b)
 Details
  
Offices and Departments can obtain office email accounts 

by submitting a request to the ITS Technology Support 

Center. Th
e requesting office or department will need to 
choose a name for the
 account (preferably eight to twelve
 characters long) that is not already in use.
  
Office accounts have the same restrictions and quotas as 

faculty and staff email accounts and can be acce
ssed 

through Webmail and other POP and IMAP mail clients.
 
 
ITS has the right to limit the number of office accounts 

granted to a department or office.
  (4)
 Email Forwarding
  
The owner of a BGSU E
-mail account can have the account 
forwarded to an email address 
outside of the BGSU domain.
 
 
(a)
 Background
  
Clients must register for a BGSU E
-mail account to acquire 
other server accounts. ITS recognizes that many individuals 

already have ema
il accounts when they join the u
niversity 

community. To simplify management of i
ndividual™s email 

accounts, ITS allows BGSU E
-Mail accounts to be 
forwarded to an email address outside the BGSU domain.
 
 
3341-6-6  5  (b)
 Details
  ITS will not allow email to be forwarded from an 
individual™s BGSU E
-Mail address to another individual™s 
BGSU email address.
  
ITS will immediately remove any forward that is suspected 

of creating an email routing loop or other delivery 

problems.
 
 (5)
 Quotas on attachments
  
ITS will establish and enforce quotas on email attachment size 

provided to account holders. W
hen an attachment
 is over its 
twenty
-five
 Meg size, the email will not be delivered.
  (6)
 Email Blocking
  
ITS reserves the right to block any incoming email messages that 

might cause email server problems, problems for the em
ail users, 
or problems for the u
niversity™s network.
  
(a)
 Background 
  
Email can be used to transport virus
-infected files or 
programs that can disrupt the email servers and the email 

user community. Email can also be used to broadly deliver 

information that is inappropriate or a nuisance (unsolicited 

bulk emai
l, also kn
own as ﬁspam.ﬂ) To protect the 
university community
 and u
niversity resources from such 
threats, ITS may block specific message
s, senders or 
domains from the u
niversity™s domain. These blocks may 

be set on a temporary or permanent basis depending 
on the 

nature of the threat.
  (b)
 Details
  
ITS may use anti
-virus software to automatically block 
messages that appear to be infected by a virus.
  
3341-6-6  6  ITS may use ﬁblack
-holeﬂ lists to protect against known 
email abusers and sites with open relays. At times, 
legitimate senders may be blocked if they are sending from 

a site that has left itself open to abuse because of weak 

security.
  
ITS may manually set blocks on specific senders or 

domains when they are suspected of sending messages that 

are deemed inappropr
iate or a threat to our environment.
  
ITS will set size limits for email messages. The current 

maximum
 size for a single message is ten
 megabytes. 
Limiting the size of messages keeps individual accounts 

from exceeding
 their quotas and protects the u
niversi
ty 
network from excessive traffic. Email messages that exceed 

the size limit will be blocked from entering the email 

server.
  
Email messages must properly identify the sender. Email 

messages that are found to not properly identify the sender 

will be blocke
d from entering the email server.
  (7)
 Account Access
  
ITS reserves the right to restrict email server access methods to 

those appropriate for the intended use of a server. For security 

reasons, these methods are generally restricted to the lowest level 

of acc
ess needed to perform the intended functions of the server.
  
(a)
 Background
  
ITS 
is responsible for securing the u
niversity™s email 
environment. ITS evaluates the intended use of a server in 

conjunction with the security risks introduced by various 

account 
access methods to establish the best account access 
policy. In general, the least access necessary to provide the 

necessary services will be granted.
  (b)
 Details
  
3341-6-6  7  Email accounts can only be accessed with email software 
that follows Post Office Protocol (POP) 
or Internet 

Message Access Protocol (IMAP). Clients can use the ITS
-provided Webmail interface to access their accounts, which 

uses the IMAP protocol to access the servers. 
  (8)
 Client Responsibilities 
  
Account holders have responsibilities that must be met 
as part of 

the privilege of email access. Account holders are expected to live 

up to these responsibilities or lose their access privileges
.  
(a)
 Background
  
The email server environment is a shared environment. 

Since the account holders are a diverse group, 
and sin
ce email access is critical to u
niversity business, it is essential 
that each account holder use the servers responsibly.
  (b)
 Details
  
An account holder is responsible for the use of his or her 

email account, and may not give anyone else access to that
 account. Conversely, account holders may not, in any way, 

try to obtain access any account other than their own.
 
 
An account holder is responsible for the security of his or 

her account password. This includes changing that 

password on a regular basis and
 ensuring that no one else 
knows it. It is also the account holder™s responsibility to 

remember passwords that they set for their accounts.
  
An account holder may not deliberately perform acts that 

will disrupt the normal operation or diminish the 

performa
nce of the network, se
rvers, or other devices on 
the u
niversity network.
  
An account holder must abide by the terms of all software 

licensing agreements and copyright laws.
  
3341-6-6  8  An account holder must abide by the rules established for 
the server where the acc
ount is housed. The account holder 
must follow all rules regarding quotas, server access 

methods, usage restrictions, etc.
 
 
An account holder must adhere to the responsibilities and 

policies dictated in Bowling Green State University's 

Acceptable Use Polic
y.  (9)
 Account Termination
 
 
BGSU accounts will be administratively disabled and deleted 

within an established time interval after the account holder is
 no 
longer affiliated with the u
niversity.
  
(a)
 Background
  
Information Technology Services has responsibil
ity 
for 
managing access to the u
niversity's centrally controlled 

servers and services.  Account termination policies have 

been established in order to enhance the security and 

reliability of these systems, and to allow for system 

resource planning and growth t
o meet the evolving needs of 
the u
niversity community.  By limiting account privileges 
to users who have 
an active affiliation with the u
niversity, 
ITS can focus the resources and support toward the proper 

subscriber group and allow current and prospective
 students, faculty, and staff to get priority service.
  (b)
 Details
  
Accounts held by individuals who vi
olate u
niversity 
policies, policies established in the BGSU Information 

Technology Policy, or any ITS established policies will be 

immediately eligible to h
ave their accounts administratively 
locked without prior notice.
  
Accounts held by student applicants who have failed to 

enroll and register for the term in which they were accepted 

for admission will be eligible for deletion the following 

term.
 
3341-6-6  9   Accounts 
held by faculty and staff will be eligible for 
deletion 
ninety
 days after their resignation or termination, 
however retirees of BGSU are eligible to retain their email 

accounts indefinitely. Accounts of terminated employees 

may be administ
ratively locked p
rior to the ninety 
day 
timeframe at the request of u
niversity administration or the 
management of the contracting department, area or unit.  

Faculty and staff must make arrangements pri
or to their 
departure from the u
niversity to publicize a new email 

addr
ess as appropriate.
  
Accounts granted to non
-affiliated individuals (campus 
ministers, visiting scholars, adjunct (intermittent) faculty, 

external faculty, consultants, contractors, participants in 

Continuing Education courses or programs, etc.) will be 

considered eligible for deletion twenty
-four
 months after 
their accounts are created.  Individuals in this category who 

have a continuing role at the university can contact the 

Technology Support Center (TSC) when notified of their 

deletion eligibility to be
 put into contact with their 
sponsoring department, area or u
nit to request an additional 

twenty
-four 
month extension of their access.   
  
Accounts are eligible fo
r deletion two weeks after the 
university has been notified that an account holder is 

deceased.  Account privacy policies apply to all accounts, 

even after an account holder's death.
  
Accounts may be deleted at ITS discretion any time after 

they become eligible.  A delay in the deletion process does 

not imply a right of the account holder 
to extended access 

to their accounts. Account holders can have their accounts 

deleted earlier than scheduled by placing a request through 

the Technology Support Center
.  (10)
 Account Privacy
  
ITS will honor the account holder™s right to privacy. As necessary 

for email administration, ITS reserves the right to examine, log, 

3341-6-6  10  capture, archive, inspect, and prese
rve any messages stored on the 
university central servers.
  (a)
 Background
  
ITS 
is responsible f
or managing and supporting the 
university email servers. This re
sponsibility requires ITS to 
investigate and analyze server performance and security 

issues. At times, these efforts require ITS personnel to 

examine, log, capture, archive, inspect, and preserve 

messages in client accounts. ITS will honor the account 

hold
er™s right to privacy except in cases where there are 

security violations, policy violations, and/or violations of 

the law.
  (b)
 Details
  
Individuals eighteen
 years of age or older are considered to 
be adults in the State of Ohio and are therefore responsible 

for their own actions. ITS cannot honor requests from the 

parents of these individuals to release email account 

information or terminate email privileges for these 

individuals.
  
ITS employees are required to protect the account holder™s 

right to privacy 
based on the confidentiality rules in the ITS 

Code of Ethics. Any violation by ITS employees of this 

code of ethics is considered grounds for dismissal.
  
Any email account that is associated with or suspected of 

being associated with security violations, p
olicy violations, 

and/or violations of the law may be examined, logged, 

captured, archived, inspected, or preserved as part of a 

formal investigation. Any account found to be in v
iolation 

may be turned over to u
niversity officials, law enforcement 

official
s, officials of the court, or other officials engaged in 
an investigation
.  (11)
 Public Records
  
3341-6-6  11  Email correspondence that relates to the organization, functions, 
policies, decisions, procedures, operati
ons or other activities of the 
university may be considere
d public documents under Ohio™s 

Sunshine Laws. BGSU employees are responsible for maintaining 

these records. ITS does not assume responsibility to maintain 

archives of public record documents for its email clients
.  
(a)
 Background 
  
ITS is responsible f
or 
managing and supporting the 
university email servers. This responsibility includes 

maintaining backups of the email system in case of 

catastrophic or system failures. These archives are expired 

on a regular schedule and only include messages that were 

in a
 client's account at the time of a backup. Our resources 
do not allow for a more extensive archive of public record 

documents of the type required by Ohio laws. Also, since 

personal correspondence is often mixed with business 

correspondence in BGSU email a
ccounts, ITS disclosure of 

contents of email accounts in response to public records 

requests might also mean disclosing personal 

correspondence
.  (b)
 Details
  
BGSU employees are responsible for maintaining records 

of correspondence that relates t
o university b
usiness. This 
includes electronic mail that may be subject to disclosure 

under Ohio™s Sunshine Laws. ITS recommends that 

employees familiarize themselves with these laws and with 

BGSU™s document retention policies and maintain their 

records accordingly
.  
Registered Date: March 17, 2015
 
 
