Title:  Professional Standards and Business Conduct -- 
Use of University Technologi
cal and Information Resources
Code:  1-100-025 Date:  9-1-95 Approved:  JDM   Definition Technological and in
formation resources
 are defined to include data; records; software; facilities; 
equipment; storage media; networks and network serv
ices; and electronic voice, video, and multimedia 
communications. Policy  University technological and information resources are 
provided to allow faculty, staff, and students to 
pursue the central educational mission
 of Boston College, and are to be used to the extent that they 
promote that mission -- either directly in teaching 
and research or indirectly in supporting the offices 
and agencies that maintain University operations. 
Technological and information resources are to be 
accessed and utilized in an ethical manner. All users of technological and information resources are to 
adhere to high moral, legal, and professional standards, and are expected to support the mission, and 
act in the best interests, of Boston College. (For 
additional information regarding the ethical business 
standards of Boston College, please see policy 
1-100-010
, Professional Standards and Business 
Conduct -- General Policy.)  
All users of technological and information resources 
are responsible for the protection of University 
assets and for the accuracy, integrity, and confidentiality of the information to which they have access. 
Resources are not to be abused or employed in such a way as to interfere with, or cause harm or 

damage to, another person, institution, or compan
y within or outside the Boston College community. While the University encourages the exploration of 
educational and scholarly interests through the use 
of its technological resources, respect for the ri
ghts and privacy of others must be observed. 
Community members and their guests may not access the files or communications of others without 
authorization. Those who are authorized to access confidential files must respect the privacy rights of 
others and use data only for legitimate academic or administrative purposes. 
Boston College supports accessibility to technologica
l resources and strives to provide state-of-the-art, 
environmentally sound facilities for all members of the University community. The University 

acknowledges its responsibility to all faculty, st
aff, and students to provide a safe and healthful 
technical environment for work and study. 
All members of the University community are to comply with the following policies, procedures, and 
security controls. 
AccessMany of the technological and information resour
ces of Boston College may be accessed by all 
members of the University community, and by the public as well. However, access to some resources 
is restricted to specific positions or organizational
 units as determined by the appropriate unit head. 
Organizational unit heads are to 
determine and authorize the appropriate degree of access for each 
member of their units, and are to provide unit members with adequate orientation and training 
regarding the ethical use of all technological and information resources. 

Users are to take precautions to prevent the unauthorized use of their access codes. Access codes are 
not to be shared with others and their confidentiality is to be strictly maintained. In choosing access 
codes, users are to avoid the use of common words,
 proper names, readily associated nicknames or 
initials, and any other letter and/or number sequences that might easily be guessed. Users will be held 
accountable for all actions performed under their access codes, including those performed by other 
individuals as a result of user negligence in protec
ting the codes. Users are responsible for monitoring 
access on their accounts and for changing access co
des on a regular basis. If access codes become 
compromised, users are to change them immediately. 
Users are not to attempt to access, search, or copy technological and information resources without the 

proper authorization. No one is to use another individual's account, either with or without permission, 
and active sessions are not to be left unattended. Th
e provision of false or misleading information in 
order to gain access to technological and information 
resources is prohibited. Users are not to test or 
attempt to compromise internal controls, even for purposes of systems improvement. Such actions 
require the advance, written approval of the authoriz
ed organizational unit head, or must be included 
among the security evaluation responsibilities of one'
s position. Suspected violations are to be reported 
to the Data Security Administrator in the Office of Information Technology. 
Protecting Confidentiality
No user is to disclose confidential information unle
ss disclosure is a normal requirement of that user's 
position and has been so authorized. All users with
 access to confidential data are to safeguard the 
accuracy, integrity, and confidentiality of that data by taking the precautions, and performing the office 
procedures, necessary to ensure that no unauthorized disclosure of confidential data occurs. Such 
precautions and procedures include the secure storage of data backups and the protection of sensitive 

data with access codes. (For information regarding 
the confidentiality of student educational records, 
please see policy 4-730-005
, Student Education Records.) 
PrivacyFor purposes of this policy, 
privacy is defined as the right of an indi
vidual or an organization to create, 
maintain, send, and receive electronic data, software, and communications files that are safe from 
examination and disclosure by others. Boston College
 recognizes that individuals have a substantial 
interest in and reasonable expectation of privacy. Accordingly, Boston College respects the privacy 
rights of all members of the University community. 
The University will not monitor users' private electronic data, software, and communications files as a 

routine matter. Users should note that some electronic files are copied to backups and stored for 
indefinite periods in centralized locations. In such instances, user deletion of an electronic file, such as 
an e-mail message, may not delete a previously archived copy of that file. 
It is a violation of Boston College policy for any member of the University community to engage in 
electronic "snooping," or, the use of technological resources for the purpose of satisfying idle curiosity 

about the affairs of others, with no substantial bu
siness purpose for obtaining access to such files. 
The University reserves the right to access and to disclose the contents of an individual's electronic 

data, software, and communications files, but will do
 so, after obtaining the proper approvals, only 
when a legitimate need exists and the urgency of the need is sufficiently strong to offset the 
University's commitment to honor the individual's privacy. Such grounds might include: (1) 
maintaining system integrity (e.g., tracking viruses)
; (2) protecting system se
curity; (3) investigating 
indications of impropriety; (4) protecting the Un
iversity's property rights; and (5) meeting legal 
obligations (e.g., subpoenas). 
Copyright Issues
Copyright is a form of protection the law provides 
to the authors of "original works of authorship" for 
their intellectual works that are "fixed in any tangible medium of expression," both published and 
unpublished (Title 17, United States Code). It is illegal to violate any of the rights provided by the law 
to the owner of a copyright. Boston College respects the ownership of intellectual material governed by 

copyright laws. All members of the University community are to comply with the copyright laws and 
the provisions of the licensing agreements that apply to software; printed and electronic materials, 
including documentation; graphics; photographs; multimedia, including musical works, video 

productions, sound recordings, and dramatic works; and all other technological resources licensed 
and/or purchased by the University or accessible over network resources provided by the University. 
Individual author, publisher, patent holder, and 
manufacturer agreements are to be reviewed for 
specific stipulations. All technological resources developed by University
 employees, students, and contractors for use by 
the University or as part of their normal employme
nt activities are considered "works for hire." As 
such, the University is considered the "author" and owner of these resources. (For information 
regarding the ownership of technological resources developed with grant funding, please see the 
Boston College Research Policies
 published by the Office for Sponsored Programs.)  
Integrity and Protection of Technological and Information Resources
  
• Viruses It is the responsibility of the user to ensure that any imported or exported executable code or data 

are free of any destructive code, such as a virus. To this end every precaution is to be taken by the 
user, and the Office of Information Technology 
is to be consulted for related information and 
software.   
• Backups It is the responsibility of the organizational unit head or network administrator to ensure that 
appropriate procedures and resources are in place to backup data on a regular basis. Backups are 

to be stored in a location that is physically secure and that protects the confidentiality of the data. 
It is the responsibility of the individual user to perform any actions necessary to comply with 
these procedures. 
  
• Physical Security 
All users are responsible for the physical secu
rity of their technological and information 
resources. Organizational unit heads are to he
lp ensure physical security by instituting 
procedures for the use of locked doors and/or for 
the use of the security devices made available by 
the University for the protection of equipment. To avoid loss by fire or theft, backups of 
important data are not to be stored in the same location as the originals. Adequate power 

regulators and surge suppressers are to be employed. 
  
• University Property 
Technological and information resources that are the property of the University are not to be 

copied, altered, manipulated, transferred, retained, or removed from campus. (The ownership of 
technological resources purchased with grant funding is determined by the individual granting 
agency. For additional information, please contact the Office
 of Research Compliance and Intellectual Property Management.) The location of each physical resource is to be entered in the 
University Capital Equipment Inventory System and/or the Information Technology Inventory 
System and updated as necessary. 
Personal Use of University Technological Resources
Authorization for the personal use of University technological resources by employees is to be 

determined on an individual basis by, and at the discretion of, the responsible unit head. The use of 
University technological resources, including the network, for a revenue generating activity that 
benefits an individual employee is strictly prohibited without the express written approval of the 

cognizant vice president and the Executive Vice President. Personal telephones and data connections 
in student residence halls are considered to be part of the private residence. Student use of these and 
other University technological resources that intrudes on general University use or that utilizes 
significant resources is prohibited. 
Misuse of Technological and Information ResourcesThe use of University technological and informatio
n resources, and the resources themselves, are not to be abused in any way. Unauthorized users are not to modify, destroy, or in any other way render 
resources unsuitable for their intended purpose. Users are not to attempt to alter the restrictions 
associated with their accounts or to attempt to brea
ch internal or external security systems. Moreover, users are not to impersonate other individuals or to misrepresent themselves in any way when using 

University technological resources. 
The network is not to be used for criminal purposes 
or, for example, to post another individual's credit 
card numbers or personal access codes. External networks (e.g., FAXON, WESTLAW, NEXUS, the 
Internet, bulletin boards) are to be used in an ethical, responsible, and courteous manner, and all 

users are to adhere to the policies of these services. 
University technological and information resources are 
not to be used in a manner that is invasive or 
that diminishes their efficiency. One example of such usage involves the broadcast function. Although 

current technology enables users to broadcast voice,
 e-mail, or video messages to all members of the 
University community simultaneously, the use of this technology is restricted. Specific guidelines 

regarding network and video broadcasting are availabl
e from the Office of Information Technology or 
the Audiovisual Department. 
Handling Potentially Offensive Material with Discretion
Material is accessible on network resources which some individual
s may consider objectionable or 
offensive. Boston College does not encourage or
 endorse the access of such material except for 
legitimate academic purposes. Users are to exercise caution and good judgment if there is a reasonable 
expectation that accessed material may be considered
 objectionable by some. Such material is to be 
accessed in a private environment and in a manner that will not negatively affect those who may deem 

it objectionable or offensive. Public workstations (i.e., those in open offices, laboratories, the libraries, 
and other public places) are not to be used to access su
ch material, hard copies are not to be directed to 
public printers, and potentially offensive material 
is not to be forwarded to others without their 
consent. The use of potentially offensive language in the text of network messages or to identify 

technological resources is prohibited. The use of University technological resources for creating or 
sending nuisance, harassing, or obscene materials or messages is also prohibited. Moreover, users of 
network resources are prohibited from engaging in any activity that is proscribed by federal and/or 
state law. Communications from members of the University community are to reflect mutual respect, civility, 
and other moral standards. The use of obscene or intolerant language, and the use of similarly 
offensive graphic or video images, clearly violate th
ese standards and are considered inappropriate for 
electronic and all other forms of Un
iversity discourse. The determination of what is obscene, offensive, 
or intolerant is within the sole discretion of the University. Users should note that University 

technological and information resources may be accessed by minor children outside the Boston 
College community. 
Reporting Suspected Violations
Suspected violations of this policy are to be repo
rted to the appropriate organizational units or unit 
heads. Depending on the nature of the violation, 
the appropriate units or unit heads may include the 
University Harassment Counselor, the Office of the Dean for Student Development, the Office of 

University Housing, the responsible Vice President's office, the Data Security Administrator in the 
Office of Information Technology, or the Internal Audit Department. If a suspected violation is 
reported instead to a supervisor, chairperson, director, dean, or other responsible person, that person 
is to report the instance to the 
appropriate units or unit heads. 
Suspected violations are to be reviewed in accordance with current resolution processes. Depending on 
the nature of the violation, such processes may include the Discriminatory Harassment Complaint 
Resolution Process, the Student Judicial Procedure, or faculty and staff grievance procedures. 
Suspected violations of a less serious nature may be subject to review and educational follow-up by the 
Data Security Administrator in the Office of Information Technology. 
The University will consider the intent, effect, and seriousness of the incident in levying sanctions for 
violations of this policy. Any pe
rson who engages in any kind of 
computer or systems misuse as 
described above may be subject to disciplinary action, including the loss of computer privileges and/or 
dismissal from the University, and to criminal prosecution under the applicable state and/or federal 
laws. Whenever the University deems it appropriate, 
restitution may be sought for any financial losses 
sustained by Boston College, or by others, as a direct result of the misuse. 
 Posted: October 16, 1995 
WWW: April 24, 1997 
Update: 
June 9, 2003; March 30, 2004
  
