POLICY INFORMATION
Date Established:
Date Last Revised:
3/26/2007Category:
 Information
Technology
Responsible O
!ce:
 O!ce
of the Chief Information
O!cer
Responsible Executive:
Chief Information O
!cer
POLICY CONTENTS
¥Summary
¥Policy Statement
¥Contact Information
¥Approval
UNIVERSITY AT BUFFALO POLICY LIBRARY
Summary
This policy establishes conditions of use and user responsibilities for UBÕs computing and
network resources. Included are deÞnitions of abuse of computing resources and access to
computing resources.
Policy Statement
I. Introduction
Access to modern information technology is essential to the state university mission of providing
the students, faculty and sta
" of the State University of New York with educational services of
the highest quality. The pursuit and achievement of the SUNY mission of education, research,
and public service require that the privilege of the use of computing systems and software,
internal and external data networks, as well as access to the World Wide Web, be made
available to all members of the SUNY community. The preservation of that privilege for the full
community requires that each faculty member, sta
" member, student, and other authorized
user comply with institutional and external standards for appropriate use.
To assist and ensure such compliance, the University at Bu
"
alo establishes the following policy,
which supplements all applicable SUNY policies, including sexual harassment, patent and
copyright, and student and employee disciplinary policies, as well as applicable federal and
state laws.
II. General Principles
a.    Authorized use of computing and network resources owned or operated by the
University at Bu
"
alo shall be consistent with the education, research and public service
mission of the State University of New York, and consistent with this policy.
b.    Authorized users of University at Bu
"
alo computing and network resources include
faculty, sta
"
, students, and other a
!liated individuals or organizations authorized by the
Provost or his designee. Use by non-a
!liated institutions and organizations shall be in
accordance with 
SUNY Administrative Procedures: Use of Computer Equipment or
Services by Non-a
!liated Institutions and Organizations.
c.    This policy applies to all University at Bu
"
alo computing and network resources,
including host computer systems, University at Bu
"
alo-sponsored computers and
workstations, software, data sets, and communications networks controlled, administered,
or accessed directly or indirectly by University at Bu
"
alo computer resources or services,
employees, or students.
d.    The University at Bu
"
alo reserves the right to limit access to its networks when
applicable campus or university policies or codes, contractual obligations, or state or
federal laws are violated, but does not monitor or generally restrict the content of material
transported across those networks.
e.    The University at Bu
"
alo reserves the right to remove or limit access to material
posted on university-owned computers when applicable campus or university policies or
codes, contractual obligations, or state or federal laws are violated, but does not monitor
the content of material posted on university-owned computers.
f.     The University at Bu
"
alo does not monitor or generally restrict material residing on
University at Bu
"
alo computers housed within a private domain or on non-University at
Bu
"
alo computers, whether or not such computers are attached to campus networks.
Printing Tip
Be sure to disable
the "shrink to Þt"
feature on your
Internet browser's
print dialog box.

g.    The University at Bu
"
alo reserves the right, upon reasonable cause for suspicion, to
access all aspects of its computing systems and networks, including individual login
sessions to determine if a user is violating this policy or state or federal laws.
h.    This policy may be supplemented with additional guidelines by campus units which
operate their own computers or networks, provided such guidelines are consistent with
this policy.
i.    Incidental Use
: As a convenience to the UB user community, limited incidental
personal use of Information Resources is permitted. Faculty and sta
" are responsible for
exercising good judgment about personal use in accordance with this and other IT
policies, as well as with UB and SUNY policies and ethical standards for state o
!cers and
employees. In general, State o
!cers and employees are charged to pursue a course of
conduct that will not raise suspicion among the public that they are likely to be engaged in
acts in violation of the public trust. Incidental personal use must comply with the following:
1.      It cannot be illegal.
2.      It cannot interfere with an UB employee's job responsibilities/work.
3.      It cannot adversely a
"
ect the availability, integrity, or reliability of UB IT systems or
cause harm to the activities of others using the IT systems.
4.      It cannot be inconsistent with the University's status as a state entity and its non-
proÞt, tax-exempt status.
User Responsibilities
a.    Privacy:
 No user should view, copy, alter or destroy another's personal electronic Þles
without permission (unless authorized or required to do so by law or regulation).
b.    Copyright:
 Written permission from the copyright holder is required to duplicate any
copyrighted material. This includes duplication of audio tapes, videotapes, photographs,
illustrations, computer software, and all other information for educational use or any other
purpose. Most software that resides on University at Bu
"
alo computing network(s) is
owned by the University, University at Bu
"
alo, or third parties, and is protected by
copyright and other laws, together with licenses and other contractual agreements. Users
are required to respect and abide by the terms and conditions of software use and
redistribution licenses. Such restrictions may include prohibitions against copying
programs or data for use on University at Bu
"
alo computing network(s) or for distribution
outside the University; against the resale of data or programs, or the use of them for non-
educational purposes or for Þnancial gain; and against public disclosure of information
about programs (e.g., source code) without the owner's authorization.
c.    Harassment, Libel and Slander:
 Under no circumstances, may any user use University
at Bu
"
alo computers or networks to libel, slander, or harass any other person.
d.    Access to Computing Resources: 
i.   Accounts:
 Accounts created by a system administrator for an individual are for
the personal use of that individual only.
ii.  Sharing of access: 
Computer accounts, passwords, and other types of
authorization are assigned to individual users and should not be shared with others.
You are responsible for any use of your account. If an account is shared or the
password is divulged, the holder of the account will lose all account privileges and
be held personally responsible for any actions that arise from the misuse of the
account.                                          

iii.  Permitting unauthorized access:
 You may not run or otherwise conÞgure
software or hardware to intentionally allow access by unauthorized users.
iv.  
Termination of access:
 When you cease being a member of the campus
community (e.g., withdraw, graduate, or terminate employment, or otherwise leave
the university), or if you are assigned a new position and/or responsibilities within
the State University system, your access authorization must be reviewed. You must
not use facilities, accounts, access codes, privileges or information for which you are
not authorized in your new circumstances.
e.    Circumventing Security:
 Users are prohibited from attempting to circumvent or
subvert any system's security measures. Users are prohibited from using any computer
program or device to intercept or decode passwords or similar access control
information.
f.    
Breaching Security:
 Deliberate attempts to degrade the performance of a computer
system or network or to deprive authorized personnel of resources or access to any
University at Bu
"
alo computer or network is prohibited. Breach of security includes, but is
not limited to, the following:
            - Creating or propagating viruses 
            - Hacking 
            - Password grabbing 
            - Disk scavenging
g.    Abuse of Computer Resources:
 Abuse of University at Bu
"
alo computer resources is
prohibited. This abuse includes, but is not limited to, the following:
i.   Game Playing: Limited recreational game playing, which is not part of
authorized and assigned research or instructional activity, is acceptable, but
computing and network services are not to be used for extensive or competitive
recreational game playing. Recreational game players occupying a seat in a public
computing facility must give up the use of the terminal when others who need to use
the facility for academic or research purposes are waiting.
ii.   Chain Letters:
 The propagation of chain letters is considered an unacceptable
practice by SUNY and is prohibited.
iii.  Unauthorized Servers:
 The establishment of a background process that services
incoming requests from anonymous users for purposes of gaming, chatting or
browsing the Web is prohibited.
iv.  
Unauthorized Monitoring:
 A user may not use computing resources for
unauthorized monitoring of electronic communications.
v.   
Flooding: Posting a message to multiple list servers or news groups with the
intention of reaching as many users as possible is prohibited.
vi.  Private Commercial Purposes:
 The computing resources of University at Bu
"
aloshall not be used for personal or private commercial purposes or for Þnancial gain.
vii.  Political Advertising or Campaigning:
 The use of University at Bu
"
alocomputers and networks shall be in accordance with SUNY and University policy on
use of University facilities for political purposes.
viii.   The issuance of a password or other means of access is to assure appropriate
conÞdentiality of University at Bu
"
alo Þles and information and does not guarantee

privacy for personal or improper use of university equipment or facilities.
ix.    University at Bu
"
alo provides reasonable security against intrusion and
damage to Þles stored on the central facilities. University at Bu
"
alo also provides
some facilities for archiving and retrieving Þles speciÞed by users, and for
recovering Þles after accidental loss of data. However, the University at Bu
"
alo isnot responsible for unauthorized access by other users or for loss due to power
failure, Þre, ßoods, etc. University at Bu
"
alo makes no warranties with respect to
Internet services, and it speciÞcally assumes no responsibilities for the content of any
advice or information received by a user through the use of University at Bu
"
alo's
computer network.
x.    Users should be aware that University at Bu
"
alo computer systems and
networks may be subject to unauthorized access or tampering. In addition,
computer records, including e-mail, are considered "records" which may be
accessible to the public under the provisions of the New York State Freedom of
Information Law.
IV. Web Policy
The University at Bu
"
alo World Wide Web Home Page (
http://www.bu
"
alo.edu) is an o
!cialpublication of the University at Bu
"
alo. Unless otherwise indicated, all materials, appearing on
the Home Page or subsequent o
!cial home pages of speciÞc departments, including text and
photographs, are copyrighted and should not be reproduced without written permission from
the Chief Information O
!cer. Home pages linked to University at Bu
"
alo Home Page may be
created by academic departments, programs, centers or institutes, administrative departments,
or recognized student groups. Individual members of the faculty and sta
" may create their
own, but must link them through their department's home page.
Individual students may create their own home page. Each student home page shall include the
disclaimer that neither the page contents nor the link identiÞers are monitored, reviewed, or
endorsed by University at Bu
"
alo.V. Sanctions
Violators of this policy will be subject to the existing student or employee disciplinary procedures
of University at Bu
"
alo. Sanctions may include the loss of computing privileges. Illegal acts
involving University at Bu
"
alo computing resources may also subject users to prosecution by
state and federal authorities.
Contact Information
To report violations or request further information, please email 
abuse@bu"
alo.edu or contact:
Michael J. Behun, Jr.
UB Computer Discipline O
!cer
Bu
"
alo, NY  14260Phone:  716-645-7739
Approval
Signed by Chief Information Officer Elias G. Eldayrie
March 26, 2007
Return to Top
Return to Top

Elias Eldayrie, Chief Information O
!cer
Date
Return to Top

