Custom Search
Policy Code: 
1391Approval Authority: 
Chancellor
Policy Type: 
University Policy
Policy Owner: 
Academic Affairs
Responsible Office: 
Information Technology Services - 828.251.6404
Administration
Computing & 
Network Usage - Faculty, Staff, Contract, Non-agency Personnel,
Volunteers, Vendors and Guests (https://administration.unca.edu/print/134)
I. PurposeThis policy states the obligations and rules that faculty, staff, contract, non-agency personnel, volunteers, vendors, or guests must follow as
a condition of their being granted access to computing, Email, and networks at The University of North Carolina Asheville.
II. ScopeThis policy applies to all University faculty and staff, and to contract, non-agency personnel, volunteers, vendors, or guests. Faculty and
staff will complete the 
Computing and Network Use Agreement
(http://administration.unca.edu/sites/default/files/Policy_Section/Computing_and_Network_Use_Agreement.pdf)
 at the time of
employment. University employees who do not currently have a signed copy of the agreement in their University personnel file will be
asked to complete the form in order to retain access to University computers, networks, and systems. Contract, non-agency personnel,
volunteers, vendors, or guests whose work benefits the University and requires access to University computing, networks, or systems will
be required to sign the 
Computing and Network Use Agreement for Non-agency Personnel
(http://administration.unca.edu/sites/default/files/Policy_Section/Computing_and_Network_Use_Agreement_Contract_Non_Agency_Person
nel_Volunteers.pdf)
 during the process of applying for access to University computing, networks, or system. This will then be maintained by
ITS in paper format until suitable digital storage is developed.
III. PolicyA. INTRODUCTION
The University of North Carolina AshevilleÕs (hereinafter "University") computing and telecommunications networks, computing equipment
and computing resources are owned by the University and are provided to support the academic and administrative functions of the
University. The use of this equipment and technologies is governed by federal and state law, and University policies and procedures.
Additional rules and regulations may be adopted by various divisions and departments to meet specific administrative or academic needs.
Any adopted requirements must be in compliance with applicable federal and state laws, and this policy.
B. REGULATORY LIMITATIONS
1. The University may monitor the use of computing equipment and its networks and systems for the following purposes:
a. To ensure the security and operating performance of its systems and networks.
b. To enforce University policies.
2. The University reserves the right to limit or deny access when federal or state laws or University policies are violated or where
University contractual obligations or University operations may be impeded.
Revision History

3. Employees, contract, non-agency personnel, volunteers, vendors, or guests have no expectation of privacy in the material sent or
received over the University computing systems or networks. While general content review will not be undertaken, monitoring of this
material may occur.
4. All material prepared and utilized for work purposes and posted to or sent over University computing and other telecommunicating
equipment, systems or networks must be accurate and must correctly identify the creator and receiver of such.
5. User names and passwords enabling access to University computers, ITS networks, and ITS systems are for the exclusive use of the
authorized employee, contract, non-agency personnel, volunteer, vendors, or guest. Passwords may NOT be shared.
C. PERMISSIBLE USE
Employees, contract, non-agency personnel, volunteers, vendors, or guests granted access to University computing technologies are
expected to follow this policy and any related University rules, regulations and procedures in the use of computing equipment, systems and
networks.
1. The use is lawful under federal or state law including those on copyright and trademark.
2. The use is not prohibited by Board of Governors, University or institutional policies.
3. The use does not overload the University computing equipment or systems, or otherwise harm or negatively impact the system's
performance.
4. The use does not result in commercial gain or private profit (other than allowable under University intellectual property policies)
except that this prohibition shall not apply to the UNCA Forum.
5. The use does not state or imply University sponsorship or endorsement.
6. The use does not involve unauthorized passwords or identifying data that attempts to circumvent system security or in any way
attempts to gain unauthorized access.
IV. VIOLATION OF POLICY
1. Any violation of this policy is "misconduct" under EHRA policies (faculty and EHRA non-faculty) and "unacceptable personal conduct"
under SHRA policies.
a. Sanctions for violation of this policy may include one or more of the following: a revocation of access privileges; a written
warning or written reprimand; demotion; suspension without pay; dismissal; or prosecution for criminal violations.
b. Any violation of this policy by a contract, non-agency personnel, volunteers, vendors, or guests will result in considering the
following steps:
i. Removal of permissions to access University computing and networking resources;
ii. Eliminating the UniversityÕs relationship with the contract, non-agency personnel, volunteer, vendor, or guest;
iii. Criminal proceedings.
V. APPLICATION OF PUBLIC RECORDS LAW
All information created or received for work purposes and contained in University computing equipment files, servers or electronic mail
(email) depositories are public records and are available to the public unless an exception to the Public Records Law applies. This
information may be purged or destroyed only in accordance with the University records retention schedule and State Division of Archives
regulations.
VI. Contract, Non-Agency Personnel, Volunteer, Vendor, and Guest AccountsUNC Asheville department heads may request computer and network accounts for contract, non-agency personnel, volunteers, vendors, or
guests.
Accounts will typically be limited to employees of the University. On occasion, however, an account may be granted to a

Associated Forms: 
Computing and Network Use Agreement
 (http://administration.unca.edu/sites/default/files/Policy_Section/Computing_and_Network_Use_Agreement.pdf)
Computing and Network Use Agreement for Non-agency Personnel
(http://administration.unca.edu/sites/default/files/Policy_Section/Computing_and_Network_Use_Agreement_Contract_Non_Agency_Personnel_Volunteers.pdf)
contractor, non-agency personnel, volunteer, vendor, or guest supporting a University unit, provided the supervising Department
Head receives Vice Chancellor approval.
Limited, fixed-term authorization for access by contract, non-agency personnel, volunteers, vendors, or guests requires:
! A written request from the director or manager of the unit;
! Such authorization will typically be limited to a maximum of 6 months;
! Signed acceptance by a unit employee or the director/manager accepting responsibility for the actions of the contract, non-agency
personnel, volunteers, vendors, or guests;
! Approval by the appropriate Vice Chancellor;
! The contract, non-agency personnel, volunteers, vendors, or guestÕs acceptance of University policies and procedures related to
accessing University computers, networks, and data evinced by the volunteerÕs completion of 
Computing and Network Use Agreement
for Non-agency Personnel
(http://administration.unca.edu/sites/default/files/Policy_Section/Computing_and_Network_Use_Agreement_Contract_Non_Agency_Per
sonnel_Volunteers.pdf)
 (forwarded to an Information Technology Security Officer upon completion).
It is the responsibility of the department head to notify ITS when the account should be deactivated if this occurs before the expiration
date.
VII. DEFINITIONS
Information Technology Security Officer is a person or persons designated by the UNC Asheville CIO who can verify that accounts are set
up in accordance with the data manager's directives.
HELPFUL LINKS
Strategic Plan
Facts & Figures
University Advancement
Finance
Athletics
Human Resources
LATEST NEWSOLLIÕs Reuter Center Singers Celebrate 20th Anniversary (Again!) with Nov. 18 Concert at Biltmore United Methodist Church
LEARN MORE
CONNECT    Chancellor's Office, CPO 1400
One University Heights
Asheville, NC 28804

Office: 828.251.6500
Fax:  828.251.6495
Email: 
chanoffice@unca.edu

