91.003:  Computer and Network Use
Status:
Re-formatted on July 27, 2016
Approved on October 28, 2002
Signatures and dates 
on archival copy
Effective:
September 1, 2002
 Initiated by:
David Fritchley
Director of Computer Services
 Reviewed by:Nancy Prichard Crist, Chair
Policy and Procedure Review Committee
 Endorsed by:
Douglas Mann
Associate Provost for Information Technology
 Approved by:
Stephen Kopp
Provost
 OverviewThis policy provides guidance and establishes expectations for members of the university community as
they use Ohio university's information technology resources.
Access to computer systems and networks owned or operated by Ohio university imposes certain
responsibilities and obligations and is granted subject to university policies, and local, state, and federal
statutes.
Access to the university's computing facilities and resources is granted solely to Ohio university faculty,
staff, registered students, and individuals outside the university who are authorized to use services that
have been made available through Ohio university. 
The university reserves the right to limit, restrict, or
extend computing privileges and access to its resources.
A.
Computers and network resources can provide access to resources both on and off campus. 
Such open
access is a privilege, and requires that individual users act in a responsible and acceptable manner.
Acceptable use always is ethical, reflects academic honesty, and shows restraint in the consumption of
shared resources. 
Acceptable use demonstrates respect for intellectual property, truth in
communication, ownership of data, system security mechanisms, and individuals' right to privacy and
freedom of intimidation, harassment, and unwarranted annoyance. 
The university considers any
violation of acceptable use principles or guidelines to be a serious offense and reserves the right to test
and monitor security, and copy and examine any files or information resident on university systems
allegedly related to unacceptable use.
Those who do not abide by the policies and guidelines in this policy should expect at least suspension of
computer privileges and possible disciplinary action in accordance with university rules for misconduct
and existing judicial, disciplinary, or personnel processes. 
Offenders may also be subject to criminal
prosecution under federal or state laws, and should expect the university to pursue such action.
The office of information technology should be notified about violations of computer laws and policies,
as well as about potential loopholes in the security of its computer systems and network. 
The user
community is expected to cooperate with the office of information technology in their operation of
computer systems and networks as well as in the investigation of misuse or abuse.
Ohio university's computers, networks, and other information resources (i.e., web pages and other
information servers) may not be used in any manner prohibited by law or disallowed by licenses,
contracts, or university regulations. 
Organizations, faculty, staff, and individuals are accountable for the
information they publish across computing resources, and they must be aware of university policies
regarding confidential information, harassment, use of university computer, and intellectual property.
Required activities
In making acceptable use of resources, you must:
B.Use resources only for authorized purposes.
1.Protect your login ID and system from unauthorized use. 
The university is not 
responsible for
activities on your login ID or that originate from your system.
2.Access only files and data that are your own, which are publicly available, or to which you have
been given authorized access.
3.Be considerate in your use of shared resources. 
Refrain from monopolizing systems, overloading
networks with excessive data, or wasting computer time, connect time, disk space, printer paper,
manuals, or other resources.
4.Forbidden activities
In making acceptable use of resources, you must 
not
:C.Provide login ID codes and system access for the purpose of using resources in violation policy,
or in violation of federal, state or local statutes.
1.Use copyrighted images, text, or software without permission or in violation of the copyright laws
of the United States, or violate terms 
of applicable software licensing agreements.
2.Use resources to violate the university codes of conduct or engage in any illegal activity.
3.
ReviewersProposed revisions of this policy should be reviewed by:
1. Faculty Senate
2. Administrative Senate
3. Classified Senate
Use resources for private financial gain or compensation except as permitted under policy
17.900, or for partisan political purposes.
4.Use resources to intimidate or single out individuals or groups for degradation or harassment in
violation of federal or state law and other university policies.
5.Use resources to provide materials whose nature or volume compromise the ability of the server
to serve other users' documents.
6.Use a computer account for which authorization has not been granted, use the campus network
to gain unauthorized access to any computer system, attempt to circumvent data protection
schemes or uncover security loopholes, or mask the identity of an account or machine.
7.Knowingly perform an act that will interfere with the normal operation of computers, terminals,
peripherals, or networks, including knowingly running or installing on any computer system or
network, or giving to another user, a program intended to damage or to place excessive load on
a computer system or network. 
This includes programs known as computer viruses, Trojan
horses, and worms.
8.Possible penalties
Misuse of computing, networking, information, or world wide web resources may result in the loss of
computing privileges. 
Additionally, misuse can be prosecuted under applicable statutes. 
Offenses that
are in violation of local, state, or federal laws may be reported to the appropriate university and law
enforcement authorities. 
Users may be held accountable for their conduct under any applicable
university or campus policies, procedures, or collective bargaining agreements. 
Complaints alleging
misuse of computer resources will be directed to those responsible for taking appropriate disciplinary
action. 
Reproduction or distribution of copyrighted works, including images, text, or software, without
permission of the owner is an infringement of U.S. copyright law and is subject to civil damages and
criminal penalties including fines and imprisonment. 
Violators will be subject to university rules and
regulations.
D.Additional use policies
Additional use policies and terms and conditions may be in place for specific electronic services offered
by Ohio university, such as the world wide web, university records, and student code of conduct
policies. 
You must familiarize yourself with any of these when you agree to use these services.
E.
Forms, References, and History
Administrative Policy Manual
 Rachel McClure revised this page 
(https://www.ohio.edu/policy/91-003.html)
 on October 12, 2016.
policy@ohio.edu
Ohio University   |   Athens, OH 45701   |   740.593.1000
Copyright © 2015 
Ohio University
.   All rights reserved.
Forms
There are no forms that are specific to this policy.
1.ReferencesThe following items are relevant to this policy:
2.Policy 
17.900, "Consulting."
a.Policy 
55.002, "Use of University Resources."
b.History
Draft versions of this policy that were circulated for review, their cover memos, their forms, and
Reviewers' comments on them are available on the password-protected Review site, at
https://www.ohio.edu/policy2/91-003/
.Prior versions of this policy were approved on:
3.October 28, 2002
a.February 4, 1997
b.June 1, 1996c.
