   
    
    
       
      
       
                                         USA Computer Use Policy 
Purpose of This Policy 
 To educate users about their responsibilities regarding acceptable use of University 
computers/networks 
 To describe and prohibit unacceptable use of University computers/networks 
Computer Use Policy Summary 
All persons using University of South Alabama computing and telecommunication resources 

must comply with the University's Computer Use Policy. 
The Policy applies to all computer workstations, servers, network devices, software, databases, 
and related equi
pment accessed directly or indirectly through the Internet. The University 
encourages authorized users to make acceptable use of computer resources, consistent with its 

educational, research, and service
-related mission. Users must also comply with all app
licable 
federal and state laws and University regulations regarding intellectual property, including 

federal copyright law, and with all applicable licenses or contracts regarding the use of software. 
In situations where access to computer resources is limited, priority use of these resources must 
be granted to educational and research
-related activities. Recreational and personal use of 
University computer resources is permitted only to a limited extent and only when they are not 

needed for educational res
earch activities. 
Certain uses of University computer resources are never permitted. These include the following: 
 Interfering with the operation of the USA computer and telecommunications systems, 

including "hacking" or "cracking" 
 Altering or damaging co
mputer hardware or software 
 Transmitting obscene communications 
 Using unauthorized passwords or circumventing system security 
 Broadcasting unsolicited messages ("spamming") 
 Invading the privacy of another person 
 Using University resources for personal commercial or financial purposes, including the 

sales of lecture notes or the intellectual property of others 
 Intentionally viewing, downloading, printing or sending unlawful material, including 

pornography, threats, or harassing communications 
Users are respo
nsible for the accuracy of all information posted on the Internet or on University-
related home pages. In addition, any University web site must be consistent with the guidelines 

of USA Web Services, found at 
http://www.southalabama.edu/webservices/webpolicies.html
. The foregoing is a summary of key points of the official University of South Alabama Computer 

Use Policy. Further details can be found in the individual sections below. Us
ers are expected to 
be familiar with it. Violation of the terms of the Policy can result in denial of privileges, and 

    
                 
                
    other penalties as outlined in the Policy. If there are any differences between this summary and 
the official Policy, the terms of the Policy shall supersede this summary. 
General Policy for Faculty/Staff 
The University of South Alabama, through its Computer Services Center (CSC), provides an 

academic network and multi
-user Unix systems to be used by faculty, staff and students for 
instructi
onal and research activities. The CSC also houses the center of the University networks, 

including the main campus fiber networks and the wide-
area links to the USA Health Systems. 
Anyone using the campus network, campus systems or computer equipment owned 
by the 

University must be authorized to do so, and must adhere to all guidelines stated in the 
USA 
Faculty/Staff Computer Use Policy
. All University employees are required to adhere 
to the policies listed throughout this document. 

However, these policies do not preclude individual departments from making more specific 

guidelines for their employees based on the nature of their work. 
General Policy for Students 
USA provides student access to computer resources through its departmental labs located 

throughout campus. Students using these labs must adhere to all University policies regarding the 

use of computers and computer networks, including the 
USA Student Computer Use Policy
. Lab privileges can be denied to anyone using this equipment for illegal or unethical purposes. 

Any illegal behavior observed in the labs may be reported to appropriate University officials or 

law enforcement agencies. All students are required to adhere to the policies pertaining to them 

throughout this document. However, these policies do not preclude individual departments from 

making more specific guidelines for their students or facilities. 

