Custom Search
Policy Code: 
1390Approval Authority: 
Chancellor
Policy Type: 
University Policy
Policy Owner: 
Academic Affairs
Responsible Office: 
Information Technology Services - 828.251.6404
Administration
Computing & Network Usage - Students
 (https://administration.unca.edu/print/133)
 I. PurposeThis policy states the obligations and rules that students of The University of North
Carolina Asheville must follow in their use of computing and networks.
II. ScopeThis policy applies to all UNC Asheville students and students of other institutions
attending classes delivered at UNC Asheville and who use University and computing
resources.
III. IntroductionThe University of North Carolina Asheville's (hereinafter "University") computing and
telecommunications networks, computing equipment and computing resources are
Revision History

owned by the University and are provided primarily to support the academic and
administrative functions of the University. The use of this equipment and technologies
is governed by federal and state law, and University policies and procedures.
Additional rules and regulations may be adopted by various divisions/departments to
meet specific administrative or academic needs. Any adopted requirements must be in
compliance with applicable federal and state laws, and this policy.
IV. Regulatory Limitations
The University may monitor use of computing equipment, networks, and systems for
the following purposes:
A. To ensure the security and operating performance of its systems and networks.
B. To enforce University policies.
C. The University reserves the right to limit access when federal or state laws or
University policies are violated or where University contractual obligations or
University operations may be impeded.
D. The University may authorize confidential passwords or other secure entry
identification; however, students have no expectation of privacy in the material sent
or received by them over the University computing systems or networks. While
general content review will not be undertaken, monitoring of this material may occur
for the reasons specified above.
E. The University generally does not monitor or restrict material residing on University
computers housed within a private domicile or on non-University computers, whether
or not such computers are attached or able to connect to campus networks.
F. All material prepared and utilized for work purposes and posted to or sent over
University computing and other telecommunications equipment, systems or networks
must be accurate and must correctly identify the creator and receiver of such.
G. A personal home page or a personal collection of electronic material that is
accessible to others must include a disclaimer that reads as follows:
ÒThe material located at this site is not endorsed, sponsored or provided by or on

behalf of the University of North Carolina Asheville.Ó
V. Permissible Use
Students are expected to follow this policy and any related University rules,
regulations and procedures for University work produced on computing equipment,
systems and networks. Students may access these technologies for personal uses if
the following restrictions are followed:
A. The use is lawful under federal or state laws including copyright and trademark.
B. The use is not prohibited by Board of Governors, University or institutional policies.
All policies governing student conduct apply to student use of computing and
networking resources.
C. The use does not overload the University computing equipment or systems, or
otherwise harm or negatively impact the system's performance.
D. The use does not result in commercial gain or private profit (other than allowable
under University intellectual property policies).
E. The use does not state or imply University sponsorship or endorsement.
F. The use does not violate state or federal laws or University policies against race or
sex discrimination, including sexual harassment.
G. The use does not involve unauthorized passwords or identifying data that attempts
to circumvent system security or in any way attempts to gain unauthorized access.
H. If the use is recreational, it does not prevent use by another University community
member for legitimate University work.
VI. Violation of PolicyA. Sanctions for violation of this policy may include suspension or revocation of access
privileges in addition to any other sanction permitted under the student conduct code.
B. The Chief Information Officer (CIO) may suspend a studentÕs access privileges for

as long as necessary in order to protect the University's computing resources. As soon
as practicable following the suspension, the CIO will forward a report of the alleged
violation to the Director of Citizenship Education (or designee) so it may be addressed
as a violation of the Student Code of Community Standards and resolved through the
Citizenship Education process
C. The Director of Citizenship Education (or designee) will provide written notice of the
suspension and the alleged violation as well as information regarding the process for
resolution of the alleged violation. Specific details regarding the Student Code of
Community Standards and the Citizenship Education process can be found at:
http://housing.unca.edu/citizenship-education
 (http://housing.unca.edu/citizenship-
education)
.D. Violations of law may also be referred for criminal or civil prosecution.
HELPFUL LINKS
Strategic Plan
Facts & Figures
University Advancement
Finance
Athletics
Human Resources
LATEST NEWSCarol Hughes Wins National Award for Remarkable Teaching in Accounting
LEARN MORE
CONNECT    
Chancellor's Office, CPO 1400
One University Heights
Asheville, NC 28804
Office: 828.251.6500
Fax:  828.251.6495
Email: 
chanoffice@unca.edu

