Frequently Asked
Questions (F.A.Q.)
Organizational Chart (pdf)
Technology Comments,
Complaints, &
SuggestionsTechnology Purchases
Contact Us
ABOUTADMISSIONS & AIDACADEMICS
STUDENT AFFAIRS
ATHLETICS
GIVINGFaculty & Sta
!
 Services
Lab Information
Policies
Appropriate Use of IT
Resources
Banner Security (pdf)
Campus Network
Cellular Service
Computer Labs
Illegal Downloading -
HEOA Compliance
Standard Practices
Student E-mail
Tablet
Web
Student Services
Winthrop University Policy
on the Appropriate Use of
Information Technology
Resources
1 Introduction
The Winthrop University community understands that information
technology has become an integral resource in ful
"lling our mission of
teaching, learning, research, public service, and administrative
responsibilities. The University therefore encourages students, faculty,
and sta
!
 to acquire computer literacy and technological skill. Computers
and networks empower us openly to 
"nd, consider, and disseminate
information developed at Winthrop and elsewhere, to communicate and
collaborate with others near and far, and to build the technological skills
base on which the twenty-
"rst century depends. With this
empowerment, however, comes commensurate responsibility. Each of
us is obliged to support and abide by the ethical and legal standards
that apply to information technology, including rights of authorship,
con
"dentiality, privacy, and dissemination. In doing so, we respect the
codes of honesty, integrity, and intellectual freedom upon which
institutions of higher learning rely.
In A Vision of Distinction
, the Winthrop community was challenged to "ensure
that information technology resources are used e
!
ectively and e
#ciently in
support of the mission, goals, and objectives of the University. Information
technology resources at Winthrop will conform to national and international
standards...." To meet this challenge, the Appropriate Use Policy has been
developed in consultation with faculty, students, sta
!
, and administrative
o
#cers of the University, taking into consideration applicable legal standards,
state policy, guidelines from respected professional organizations, and the
policies developed by leading public and private universities throughout the
United States. In putting forth this policy, we intend to establish a framework
of responsible, considerate, and ethical behavior expected by the University in
the use of information technology
2 Policies
Throughout this document, the words ÒcomputersÓ and Òcomputer systemsÓ
include but are not limited to faculty and sta
!
 desktops and laptops, library
and lab computers as well as any hosted and cloud-based systems used by
Winthrop University.
2.1 Usage Consistent with Law
Usage of Winthrop University computing resources shall be consistent with
local, state, and federal law.
2.2 Copyright Law
CONTACT INFORMATION
Computing & Information 
   Technology
1 McBryde Hall
Rock Hill, SC 29733
803/323-2400
803/323-2580 (fax)
helpdesk@winthrop.edu
QUICK LINKS
Webpage Editing
Computer Virus 
   Precautions and Hoaxes
Safe Computing Practices
SPAM - Unwanted Emails
EMAIL WINGSPAN
 BLACKBOARD
 MAP SITE  PEOPLE 
  
It is the policy of Winthrop University to respect the ownership of all
intellectual material protected by copyright laws.
Users shall not make or use illegal copies of copyrighted materials, store such
copies on University systems, or transmit them over University networks.
For further information relating to the copyright policies of Winthrop
University,
refer to the Winthrop University 
Policy on Copyrighted
 Material, available in
the library.
2.3 Systems Security
Compliance with policies that ensure the security and integrity of all campus
information systems is mandatory and critical to ensure continuing provision
of computer resources to the entire Winthrop community.
2.3.1 User Accounts
The University owns the computer facilities, resources, and accounts.
Information Technology and its respective departments must approve all
access to central computer systems, including the issuing of passwords.
Access to administrative systems is limited and must be obtained through the
appropriate Systems Security O
#cer. The department chair or an authorized
representative must approve all access to departmental computer systems.
All Winthrop students, faculty members, sta
!
, and employees of contracted
auxiliary services are eligible to receive a computer system account.
Members of employees' families, who are not members of one of the above
categories, are not eligible for computer system accounts.
Only the Assistant Vice President for Computing and Information Technology
may grant others access to Winthrop University electronic resources and then
only in those cases where there is a strong likelihood that the activity will
signi"cantly bene
"t the University as a whole.
Users shall not provide false or misleading information to obtain access to
computing resources or facilities.
2.3.2 Responsibility for security of accounts
An account is given to an individual for the exclusive use by that individual. It
is against University policy for a user to give someone his or her password or
allow others to use his or her account. However, this is not to preclude others
temporarily assisting a user in the performance of his or her university
functions (for example faculty helping a student with a computer project;
associates showing a new feature of the computer system) while supervised
by the user. Users are responsible for all activity on their accounts.
Attempting to discover another user's password or attempts to gain
unauthorized access to another person's 
"les or mail is prohibited. The only
exception will be when computer center personnel are working on the
security of the computer system.
2.3.3 Circumvention of network security
Users shall not attempt to circumvent or subvert system or network security
measures.
2.4 Con
!dentiality and privacy
2.4.1 Con
!dentiality
Winthrop University considers 
"les (for example: class programs and
assignments, spreadsheets, E-mail, etc.) to be con
"dential, and all users are
expected to treat them as such. Files may be shared with others by explicitly
making those "les available to them. It is against University policy to access

another person's 
"les without permission from the owner of those 
"les.Winthrop University personnel will not read the E-mail or 
"les of a user with
the following exceptions when: (a) it is necessary to diagnose a computer
system problem, (b) the University has probable cause to believe a violation of
University policy or applicable law has occurred, (c) the University is
complying with a valid subpoena or search warrant issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
2.4.2 Noti
!cation
Unless noti
"cation would hinder an investigation of adherence to this
appropriate use policy or would compromise a criminal investigation, a user
will be noti
"ed when his or her E-mail or 
"les will be read or have been read
by University o
#cials.2.4.3 Interception of network tra
"cUsers shall not intercept network tra
#c for any purpose unless engaged in
authorized network administrative duties.
2.5 Appropriate and inappropriate uses
2.5.1 Damage or disruption
Users may not damage computer systems or knowingly cause disruptions in
its operations or use. Users shall not use the network to disrupt network users,
services or equipment. Disruptions include, but are not limited to, distribution
of unsolicited advertising, propagation of computer "worms" and viruses, and
sustained high volume network tra
#c that substantially hinders others in their
use of the network.
2.5.2 Personal Gain
Users shall not use the computer systems for personal gain such as selling
access to a USERID or by performing work for pro
"t with University resources
in a manner not authorized by the University.
2.5.3 ConsultingUsers wishing to use University computing resources for consulting related to
their academic specialty shall obtain advance written approval from their
dean or equivalent supervisor in consultation with the Assistant Vice President
for Computing and Information Technology.
2.5.4 Excessive use
Users shall refrain from monopolizing systems, overloading networks with
excessive data or wasting computer time, connect time, disk space, printer
paper, manuals or other resources.
2.5.5 Nonessential use of laboratory resources
Because public University computer laboratory resources are limited,
nonessential use of these resources is discouraged. When others are waiting
for computer laboratory resources to complete class assignments, they may
preempt people using resources for nonessential purposes.
2.5.6 Billable services
Users shall assume responsibility for any charges associated with billable
services unless appropriate authorization has been obtained.
2.5.7 Electronic Mail
Electronic mail is a service provided by the University to users as an aid to

communication.
2.5.7.1 Acceptable uses of electronic mail
2.5.7.1.1 Uses of Electronic Mail
Electronic mail may be used for a wide variety of on- and o
!
-campuscommunication. Examples include subscriptions to listservs, professional
communications, notices of University activities, personal correspondence,
actions and scheduling of University and faculty committees, administration
and board activities, announcement of University policies and schedules, and
University announcements.
2.5.7.1.2 System-Provided Mailing Lists
Only messages relating to University activities should be sent to the system-
provided mailing lists, e.g., All Users, All Faculty, All Sta
!
, etc. Such mailing
lists are for noti
"cation of University events, communication of o
#cialUniversity messages, and noti
"cation of bulletin board discussions. System-
provided mailing lists shall not be used for "classi
"ed ads" (e.g., "For Sale," "For
Lease," etc.) or "free items" (e.g., free kittens, free books, etc.). Users shall not
use the system-provided mailing lists for commercial or partisan political
purposes.2.5.7.1.3 Bulletin Board System
As an alternative to the use of system-wide mailing lists, the University
provides a bulletin board system as a forum for discussion of issues,
announcements of activities, "classi
"ed ads," and communications that are
inappropriate for distribution by system-provided mailing lists. To assure the
most economical use of computer resources and to avoid sending messages
to persons who do not want to receive them, users are encouraged to use the
bulletin board system when they wish to communicate to the campus at
large.
2.5.7.1.4 User-created Mailing Lists
Users may also create their own mailing lists. When creating and using a
mailing list, users shall ensure that everyone on the list agrees to be included
on the list.2.5.7.2 Unacceptable uses of Electronic Mail
2.5.7.2.1 Prohibited uses
Electronic mail is not to be used for the following:
commercial ventures
personal pro
"tsolicitations for contributions for non-University sponsored entities
chain letters
"pyramid schemes"
or any illegal activity or unlawful purpose.
2.5.7.2.2 Harassment and intimidation
Users shall not use E-mail to harass or intimidate another person.
2.5.7.2.3 "Sensitive" information
No memos containing "personnel-sensitive" or "legal-sensitive" information
shall be sent via E-mail.
2.5.8 Intellectual freedom

Winthrop University recognizes the right of all users to use resources of their
choosing. Computer resources are available for the interest, information, and
enlightenment of the Winthrop community. Information will not be proscribed,
censored, or removed by the University because of partisan or doctrinal
disapproval.
2.5.9 Respect for rights of others
Computer users at Winthrop have a responsibility to be aware of materials
that may be objectionable to others when using computer facilities in public
areas. Monitors and printers in public areas, such as open access computer
labs and o
#ces that more than one person may share, should not be used to
display or print materials that might be de
"ned as harassing or disruptive.
Users are reminded that any state and federal laws dealing with these or
related matters apply to Winthrop facilities and are encouraged to use good
judgment.
3 Enforcement and Penalties
3.1 Enforcement
The Assistant Vice President for Computing and Information Technology is
responsible for administering and enforcing this policy. Questions concerning
this policy should be directed in writing to the Assistant Vice President for
Computing and Information Technology.
Violations of these policies shall be reported in writing to the Assistant Vice
President for Computing and Information Technology. When potential
damage to University computing resources or data is immediate, the Assistant
Vice President for Computing and Information Technology may suspend the
alleged violator's access to such resources immediately. Notice of such
suspension shall be communicated to the alleged violator promptly. Ordinarily
the Assistant Vice President for Computing and Information Technology will
discuss the alleged violation with parties involved and/or the individual's
supervisor, instructor, or dean, as appropriate. If the problem cannot be
resolved, the Assistant Vice President for Computing and Information
Technology may refer alleged violations of this policy to the appropriate
administrator or judicial body.
If a Web page mounted on a University computing resource, in the opinion of
the Assistant Vice President for Computing Information Technology, violates
this Appropriate Use Policy or the Web Page Policy, access to that Web page
may be temporarily suspended pending prompt adjudication of the matter as
described in the paragraph above.
3.2 Penalties.
Any violations of the policies included in this document may result in
penalties as described below. Students may face review for disciplinary
actions as described in the Student Conduct Code in the Student Handbook.
These may include, but are not limited to, the suspension of or loss of access
to University computer resources, suspension or expulsion from the
University.
Faculty and sta
!
 may face review for disciplinary action as described in the
Faculty Handbook or Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual. These may
include, but are not limited to, the suspension of or loss of access to
University computer resources, and other penalties listed in the Handbook or
Manual including possible termination of employment by the University.
Appeals from penalties assessed under this policy will follow the appropriate
grievance procedure as stated in the Faculty Handbook or Personnel Policies
and Procedures Manual.
 For more information, contact 
Patrice Bruneau
, Assistant Vice President for
Computing and Information Technology.
Please forward complaints to 
servicedesk@winthrop.edu
.
IN THE HEART OF THE CAROLINAS
A-Z Site Map
Accessibility
Alumni & Friends
ArtsBoard of Trustees
CalendarsDirections
Directory
DisclaimerEmergency/Safety
Employment
Family Programs
Finance & Business
Financial Aid
Library
Majors & More
O#ce of the President
Online Learning (Graduate)
Records & Registration
Residence Life
Site Feedback
Tuition & Fees
Visit the CampusVisitors Center
© Winthrop University á 701 Oakland Avenue á Rock Hill, SC 29733, USA á 803/323-2211

