Information Technology
Data, Video and Voice Networks
Policy
 PURPOSEThe purpose of this rule is to ensure the integrity of the video, voice, and data
communication systems on the WMU campuses.
SCOPE
This rule applies to the UniversityÕs Kalamazoo campus facilities (main
campus, Parkview campus, and Oakland Drive campuses) and to the regional
site facilities, except for those regional sites that obtain network services from
another institution. These systems include the Ethernet network,
which consists of the data ports, the wiring for the system, thousands of
wireless access points and hundreds of network switches and routers
necessary for the system to operate. It also includes the traditional and voice
over-internet telephone system and the video system popularly known as
EduCablePOLICYThe Office of Information Technology is the office on campus that manages
and owns the video, voice, and data networks. All changes to this system
must be authorized by the Office of Information Technology and must be
implemented by IT staff or by licensed contractors working under IT
supervision.
No devices with multiple network interfaces may be connected to the
network without advance approval from the Office of Information
Technology. To obtain more information or request advance approval, 
openO!ice of Information Technology
Western Michigan University
Kalamazoo MI 49008-5206 USA
(269) 387-5430
an IT service request
. You will be taken to ITDirect and asked to login with
your Bronco NetID and password.
No other office on campus is authorized to install new data ports, telephone
jacks, or video connections.
No other office on campus may connect hubs, switches, routers or wireless
access points to the network.
No other office on campus is authorized to change the location or
configuration of any network equipment.
No other office on campus is authorized to run any wire or fiber connection
to add new devices to the network, other than cable that connects directly
to an already existing wall-mounted data port, telephone jack, or video
jack.
No other office on campus may utilize information technology video, voice
and data network services to subscribe to, or connect to, television services
from an outside entity. All subscriptions and connections must be made
through the Office of Information Technology.
Any office found to be in violation of this policy will be financially
responsible for costs associated with their actions, including costs
associated for repair or replacement of damaged equipment and costs for
IT staff time spent on recovery. OIT will not be responsible for maintaining
network connectivity for any devices installed in violation of this rule.
RATIONALE
The video, voice, and data network is a highly complex system and it is
essential that all components of the system work together. Only if this system
is centrally managed and centrally owned can we have any assurance that all
parts of the network are installed to code, are installed to University network
standards, and are able to operate together. This policy is also necessary
because the telecommunications budget at Western is self-supporting and all
who use the network should share in the costs on the same basis.
DOCUMENT ACTION
Approved: IT Executive Advisory Board, March, 2018
Approved: College Representatives, March, 2018
Revised: March, 2018
Direction/Purpose: Chief information officer, June 2010
Reviewed/Approved: IT leadership team, June 2010
Reviewed: President's senior leadership team, July 2010

 Western Michigan University
Kalamazoo MI 49008-5200 USA
(269) 387-1000Contact WMU
© 2018 All rights reserved.

