93.001:  Data Classification
Status:
Re-formatted on June 20, 2016
Approved on September 9, 2013
Signatures and dates 
on archival copy
Effective:
when approved
 Initiated by:
Matthew Dalton
Director of Information Security
 Endorsed by:
Pam Benoit
Executive Vice President and Provost
 Approved by:
Roderick J. McDavis
President
 OverviewThis policy establishes that all information assets will be classified according to their confidentiality,
integrity and availability. 
This policy sets forth procedures based on those classifications so that the
university can protect each asset in an appropriate manner.
This policy is based on federal information processing standards (FIPS) publication 199, "
Standards for
Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems
" and the corresponding NIST
special publication, 800-53 revision 4, "
Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems
and Organizations
."Key elements of this policy are the appointment of data stewards and the classification of data elements
or data assets.
A.Security objectives
As part of the university's data classification scheme, data will be classified, in terms of security, as
B.
high, medium, or low in three areas:
Confidentiality
"Confidentiality" refers to the requirement and need for preserving authorized restrictions on
information access and disclosure, including means for protecting personal privacy and
proprietary information. Examples include student social security numbers, which require a high
level of confidentiality; the contents of university work emails, which require a medium level of
confidentiality; and the university's "front door" web pages, which require a low level of
confidentiality.
1.Integrity
"Integrity" refers to the necessity of guarding against improper information modification or
destruction, and includes ensuring information non-repudiation and authenticity. Student grades
and university financial data are examples of data that requires a high degree of integrity.
2.Availability
"Availability" refers to the requirement to ensure timely and reliable access to and use of
information. Medical information, such as an individual's potential allergic reactions to certain
drugs, is an example of data that has a requirement for a high degree of availability.
3.Potential impact
C.High
Failure to meet this particular security objective could pose a significant threat to: reputation,
university mission, intellectual properties, legal compliance, financial health, or life or liberty.
Information exempted from the "sunshine" laws usually has a high degree of confidentiality.
Information regarding grades, confidential or proprietary research, health care, or personal
financial information typically requires a high degree of integrity.
1.Medium
Failure to meet this particular security objective could pose a moderate threat to: reputation,
university mission, intellectual properties, legal compliance, financial health, or life or liberty.
Typically, items in this classification are subject to release under the "sunshine" laws.
2.Low
3.
Failure to meet this particular security objective could pose little or no threat to: reputation,
university mission, intellectual properties, legal compliance, financial health, or life or liberty.
A low degree of confidentiality is typically used for information that is intended for public
consumption.
Data stewards
The data steward is the individual whom the university has identified as being responsible for the
quality and utility of data elements. A primary duty of the data steward is to ensure that all data for
which the steward has responsibility is properly rated and classified. 
The data steward is responsible for
ensuring that a particular data element remains useful for the university, and that data is made
available to appropriate parties as defined by role.
A data steward must be identified for all data elements that have a medium or high potential impact.
The data steward works with Ohio university to ensure that the right policies, procedures, and operating
practices are in place to protect the data element.
D.University information security officer
The director of information security, fulfilling the role of university information security officer, is tasked
to coordinate, develop, implement, and maintain an organization-wide information security program.
This includes responsibility for the overall information risk posture of the university, and ensuring that
the security objectives listed in this policy are adequately addressed.
E.Procedures for levels of data
All institutional data shall be rated according its criticality in the dimensions of confidentiality, integrity,
and availability. These ratings will occur over time, starting with those data elements that pose the
greatest risk to the university, or that have the greatest compliance requirements.
A list of data elements with their corresponding data classification ranking will be generated by the
information security office through collaboration with university parties, including at a minimum the
listed reviewers of this policy, and approved by the Ohio university president and executive staff. 
Those
officially classified data sets and guidance for the different levels of data, including notation and
suggested methods of protection will be included at 
https://www.ohio.edu/oit/security/consulting-
standards/classifying-sensitive-data
.The following policies apply to data elements at these particular levels. 
If a particular data element has
a combination of ratings, the highest rating will take precedence. 
Failure to adhere to the following shall
also be considered to be a violation of policy 
91.003 and may result in disciplinary action.
F.High
User roles or systems handling data with a high classification shall be reviewed and approved by
the appropriate data steward, information security office, and chief information officer on an
annual basis with appropriate input from interested parties throughout the university. Those
systems and business processes surrounding the data elements shall be reviewed prior to being
put into production, or containing sensitive information, and thereafter on an annual basis, by
1.
ReviewersProposed revisions of this policy should be reviewed by:
1. Chief Information Officer
2. Information Assurance and Privacy Advisory Group
3. DeansForms, References, and History
the information security office, to ensure that security controls are adequate.
Medium
User roles or systems handling data with a medium classification shall be reviewed and
maintained by the information security office, appropriate data steward, and supervisor or
department head as appropriate. Those systems and business processes surrounding the data
elements shall be reviewed on a periodic, sequential basis by the information security office, to
ensure that security controls are adequate.
2.Low
User roles or systems handling data with a low classification shall be reviewed and maintained by
the appropriate supervisor or department head as appropriate. Guidelines for best practices in
handling this classification of data will be provided by the information security office upon
request. A security review of systems with a low security rating will be done by the information
security office at the request of the department as time and resources allow.
3.Forms
There are no forms that are specific to this policy.
1.ReferencesThe following items are relevant to this policy:
2.FIPS Publication 199, 
Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and
Information Systems
.a.
Administrative Policy Manual
 Andrea Swart revised this page 
(https://www.ohio.edu/policy/93-001.html)
 on March 22, 2017.
policy@ohio.edu
Ohio University   |   Athens, OH 45701   |   740.593.1000
Copyright © 2017 
Ohio University
.   All rights reserved.
NIST special publication 800-53 revision 4, 
Security and Privacy Controls for Federal
Information Systems and Organizations
.b.https://www.ohio.edu/oit/security/consulting-standards/classifying-sensitive-data
.c.Policy 
91.003, "Computer and Network Use."
d.History
Draft versions of this policy that were circulated for review, their cover memos, their forms, and
Reviewers' comments on them are available on the password-protected Review site, at
https://www.ohio.edu/policy2/93-001/
.Prior versions of this policy were approved on:
3.June 20, 2016 (re-formatted)
a.September 9, 2013
b.
