Data Access Policy
 Audience:
 All faculty, staff and students All benefit eligible employees (regular) and temporary All 
contractors, vendors and any others (including 3rd parties) entrusted with information 
maintained in the University™s information repositories
 Definition:
 Protecting
 information assets is driven by a variety of considerations including legal, 
academic, financial and other business requirements.
 Northwestern University is committed to nurturing the open, information
-sharing 
requirements of its academic culture, while p
reserving the confidentiality, integrity and 
availability of its information resources. To promote the highest standards of decision
-making and management, Northwestern University intends to provide the University 
community expeditious access to authoritat
ive and accurate data from information 
systems.
 The policy contained in this document will support and promote greater understanding 
of and appropriate use of data, and heightened awareness of the sensitive nature of 
data based on various risk factors. It 
is expected that this policy will improve the ability 
of the University community to properly manage access to University data in compliance 
with Federal and State laws and regulations, and other University policy requirements. 
Overall the policy will impr
ove data quality and the transparency of institutional security 
and trust policies.
 Policy Statement:
 Access to data will be as broad as possible, consistent with the classification of the data, role(s) 
and responsibilities of the user, and level of traini
ng. Data will be classified according to its 
sensitivity to unauthorized exposure as per the standards defined in this document. This policy 
will be supported by ongoing development of a Data Access Matrix (with data classifications and 

data access roles),
 and a program which will train users to effectively and securely use 
University data.
 Scope
 
Items of information that are created, collected, maintained, and utilized by the University 
community for the purpose of carrying out the institutional mission of
 research and teaching and 
data used in the execution of required business functions, limited by any overriding contractual 

or statutory regulations. Research data, scholarly work of faculty or students, and intellectual 
property are beyond the scope of th
is policy.
 Policy Owners
 Policy owners are the Provost and Senior Vice President for Business and Finance. The 

Administrative Data Council (ADC) is involved in governance of the policy.
 Standards for Data Classification
 University data must be consistently
 protected throughout its life cycle in a manner 
commensurate with its sensitivity and criticality, regardless of where it resides or what 
purpose(s) it serves. For example, extracts of data and backups of data shall have the same 

classification level and 
utilize the same protective measures as the same data in the system of 
record.
 1. Public Information
 Public:
 Public information is available to all members of the University community, 
and may be released to the general public. The University reserves the rig
ht to control the 
content and format of Public information. This information is not restricted by local, 
state, national, or international statute regarding disclosure or use.
 Examples include the University™s auditable financials, schedule of classes, and
 approved 
census facts.
 2. Internal Information
 Internal:
 Information that is intended for use by and made available to members of the 
University community who have a business need to know. This information is not 
restricted by local, state, national, or inte
rnational statute regarding disclosure or use. 
Internal information is not intended for public dissemination but may be released to 

external parties to the extent there is a legitimate business need. The University reserves 

the right to control the content
 and format of Internal information when it is published to 
external parties.
 Examples include employment data, financial expenditure detail, Course Teacher 
Evaluations, and Directory Information.
 Recognizing that inappropriate disclosure of certain Intern
al information may result in 
unauthorized use of the data, the University reserves the right to designate that certain 

subsets of Internal information require training in the appropriate use and handling of the 
data, e.g., salary letters.
 3. Legally/Contractu
ally Restricted Information
 Legally/Contractually Restricted:
 Information that is required to be protected 
by applicable law or statute (e.g., HIPAA, FERPA, or the Illinois Personal Information 
Protection Act), or which, if disclosed to the public could ex
pose the University to legal 
or financial obligations.
 Access is granted to those individuals who have a business need to know and who have 

signed an appropriate confidentiality agreement.
 Examples include, but are not limited to, occurrences of personally
-identifiable 
information, e.g., social security numbers (SSNs), personnel records, student records, 
medical records, names in connection with SSNs, and credit card numbers. Specific 

Univer
sity policies may apply to particular data in this classification, e.g., Secure 
Handling of Social Security Numbers, Security of Electronic Protected Health 
Information, etc.
 Recognizing that unauthorized use of certain Restricted information may expose th
e University to particularly heightened risk, the University reserves the right to designate 
that users be required to undergo additional training as appropriate.
 4. Procedure
 A wider group of systems, business units, and individuals must have informed data 
access and shared responsibility for use of that data. As part of this shared responsibility, 
individual units are responsible for the development and implementation of procedures to 
effectuate this policy.
 Additional clarifications to the policy may be pro
vided and will be communicated when 
circumstances require.
 5. Compliance
 The classification level applied to specific information is based on statutory requirements, 
the sensitivity of the data, its criticality to the University, and its use. Individuals foun
d in 
violation of policy are subject to consequences as documented in the Faculty, Staff, and 

Student Handbooks, the Standards of Business Conduct, and via contractual agreements 
with third parties doing business with the University.
 Satisfies
 ISO 27002 6.
1.3, 6.2.1, 6.2.2, 7.2, 8.1.1, 11.1.1, 11.4.3
 
Last Review Date:
 December 2016
 December 2013
 Original Issue Date:
 June 2007
 Revision Dates:
 December 2013
  
