1
 
 
Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology 
 
Information Technology Security and Acceptable Use Policy
 
 
 
 
Scope: 
This policy is to be applied in addition to t
he current Michigan State University Acceptable 
Use of Computing Systems, Software, and the University Digital Network Administrative Ruling 
http://www.msu.edu/au/
This policy will describe procedures and protocols for information 
security and systems man
agement, incident response, disaster recovery, and operations and 
security. 
 
Procedures: 
 
 
I. Information Security and Systems Management 
 
Electronic records containing confidential and proprietary information should be stored on 
centralized data servers w
henever feasible. This can include databases or file servers. 
Computers used to access electronic records containing confidential and proprietary 
information shall be locked against unauthorized use when unattended (for example, 
employing a screen saver wi
th a password lock). The storage of confidential and 

strongly discouraged. If such data must be stored on these devices, the use of data 
encryption to encode the inf
ormation is strongly encouraged, to ensure its integrity in the 
event of theft of the physical device. 
 

(
secureit.msu.edu/sid/ind
ex.html
)
 
for policies and procedures. 
 
 
Confidential Information 
 
Examples of confidential information include, but are not limited to: 
 
 

 
Social security number 
 

 
Credit card/debit card number 
 

 
Bank account numbers, Automated Clearinghouse (
ACH), Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) 
account numbers and related information 
 

 

 

 
Names, addresses and phone numbers when used in conjunction with any of the above data 

n name, or when restricted or 
protected by the individual 
 

 
Student records that are protected by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act 

(
www.reg.msu.edu
) 
 
 
 

2
 
 

 
Protected health information under the Heal
th Insurance Portability and Accountability Act 
(HIPAA), including student number and student name pairings 
 

 
Personal financial information as defined and governed by the Gramm
-
Leach
-
Bliley Act 
(GLB) 
 

 
Resear
ch information
-
as defined and governed by federal regulation (45 CFR 46, 21 CFR 50, 

hrpp.msu.edu/
)
 
 

 
Proprietary information owned, used, or in the possession of the University, such as 
c
omputer applications for which MSU owns the code or a license, or other intellectual 
property 
 

 
Employment data such as benefits enrollment, beneficiary data, and certain grievance, 
arbitration or legal proceeding documentation 
 

 
Security codes, combinat
ions, and passwords 
 
 
Proprietary Information 
 
Proprietary information means information, records, or data whose value would be lost or reduced 
by disclosure or by disclosure in advance of the time prescribed for its authorized public release, or 
whose disclosure would otherwise adversely affect the University financially. Examples of 
proprietary information includes but are not limited to: 
 

 
Res
earch data or results prior to publication or the filing of a patent application. 
 

 
Non
-
patentable technical information or know
-
how that enhances the value of a patented 
invention or that has independent commercial value. 
 

 
Information about the Univers

would increase the cost of that property for the University or decrease what the University 
realizes from that property. 
 
 
II. Incident Response 
 
 
In the event of a suspected compromise of a 

 
INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL REPORTING OF DATA SYSTEM SECURITY BREACHES 
 
(
itservices.msu.edu/guidelines
-
policies/data
-
breach.html
) will guide the departmental response. 
 
 
A reportable incident occurs when (a) an un
authorized person is believed to have gained 
 
the ability to access confidential or proprietary data that is stored on a University data system, or 
(b) 
a person who is authorized to access confidential or proprietary data that is stored on a 
university 
d
ata system misuses that data
. 
 
 
Upon discovery of the compromise of the data system, the following steps should be taken: 
 

 
Contact departmental IT administrator. 
 

 
Leave affected systems on and attached to the network until investigators direct otherwise 
 

 
Do not log on or perform administrative functions on the affected system until investigators 
arrive 
 

 
Record, in writing, all actions taken in connection with th
e discovery of the reportable 
incident
-
indicating date and time. 
 
 
 
 

3
 
 
III. Disaster Recovery/Business Continuity 
 
 
The Depar
tmental Research Emergency Defense (Information System) [REDIS] plan documents 
responses by individual laboratories and the BMB Stores. The plan is available through the BMB 

. 
Departmental business functions will be re
-
constituted through the loading of back
-
up information 
onto a replacement server and individual PCs. All business function information is acquired through 
university sources (Contracts and Grants, HR, etc.) and 
does not represent information that is only 
housed in BMB. Therefore, back
-
up of primary information is available from non
-
departmental 
sources. 
 
IV. Operations and Security 
 
 
The IT manager will oversee training of all users within BMB with access to conf
idential and 
proprietary information. Training will instruct users in topics such as: confidentiality, malicious 
software, and use of passwords. Periodic training updates will be conducted when necessary. 
 
Information that is classified Confidential and Pr
oprietary must be kept in a place that provides a 
high
-
level of protection against unauthorized access and not taken outside the University unless it 
can be assured adequate protection. In general, this means storing the information behind a 
physical or el
ectronic lock, for example, in an office, filing cabinet, or desk that is kept locked when 
the User is not present, or on a computer that provides strong access controls and encryption. 
Encryption consistent with University standards is strongly recommende
d for information stored 
electronically on all computers, especially portable devices such as notebook computers or 
Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs) that 
are vulnerable to theft or loss.
 
It is the responsibility of all users to inform the IT Manager of a
ny IT equipment purchases or 
transfers. It is the responsibility of the IT Manager to update the Departmental IT Asset Log. When 
equipment is to be disposed, it is the responsibility of the IT Manager will to ensure that all storage 
media has been properly
 
cleaned and sanitized.
 
It is the responsibility of the IT Manager to conduct regular system back
-
ups and to maintain a 
secure, off
-
site storage location for back
-
up.
 

