UC Santa Barbara         Home:  Administrative Services/Information Systems and Computing        

          

Interim Electronic Communications Implementing Guidelines 5612 
Supercedes Electronic Mail Implementing Guidelines Issued July 1, 1998 
Interim guidelines effective December 28, 2000 
 
Pages 6  Interim Electronic Communications Implementing Guidelines 5612  
Background  Effective November 17, 2000 the University of California adopted the University Electronic 
Communications Policy.  The new policy superseded the 1998 University Electronic Mail Policy 
and Business and Finance Bulletin IS-6, Campus Communications Guidelines. 
 The University Office of the President has asked UC campuses to use their Electronic 
Mail Implementing Guidelines as interim Electronic Communications Implementing 
Guidelines.  Therefore, effective December 28, 2000 the principles and processes 
contained in these Guidelines shall be applied to electronic communications.  If you have 

any questions about applying the Guidelines to electronic communications please 

contact Policy Coordinator Meta Clow at <Meta.Clow@vcadmin.ucsb.edu>. 
 The Policy and Implementing Guidelines were carefully written to assure the principles of 
academic freedom, freedom of speech, and privacy of information are upheld.  Their intent is to 
engender an environment which encourages the use of electronic communications and other 
resources which may be critical to the pursuit of teaching, research, public service, learning, 
and delivery of services.  At the same time, the Policy and Guidelines recognize that the 
University is also charged with protecting its members and meeting legal and fiduciary 
obligations.   
 Scope  The Policy and Guidelines apply to: 
 All electronic communications resources owned or managed by the University; All electronic communications resources provided by the University through contracts and 
other agreements with the University; All users and uses of University electronic communications resources; and All University electronic communication records in the possession of University employees or of other users of electronic communications resources provided by the University.  The Guidelines  The Interim Implementing Guidelines (1) emphasize that the University respects the privacy of electronic communications users; and (2) outline a process which (a) assures that the least 
perusal of contents, and the least action necessary is taken to resolve issues involving 
monitoring, inspection, and disclosure of electronic communications, and (b) assures that the 
individual is promptly notified of any action being taken and of the procedures for recourse.  The 
proposed Guidelines are sensitive to and respond to concerns raised about the Policy. 
 
The Policy is restated in some of the sections within the Guidelines.  The intention is to aid 
supervisors and general users by providing them, in brief terms, with the general principle 
represented in the Policy.    1 of 6
 Table of Contents  Section Page
  I. References 2 

II. Allowable Use 2 

III. Access 3 

IV. Notification 3 

V. Directory Information 3 

VI. End of Affiliation 4 

VII. Service Restrictions 4 

VIII. Inspection, Monitoring, or Disclosure 4 
 
 I. References  UC Electronic Communications Policy, issued November 17, 2000, located at: 
http://www.ucop.edu/ucophome/policies/ec/ 
 II. Allowable Use 
 A. To Support the University Mission 
Electronic communications services are provided to University of California, Santa Barbara employees and its agents for the purpose of teaching, research, 
and conducting university business.  In general, electronic communications 
should be used with the same discretion as all other university resources, 
carefully assuring that its use is to benefit the University and is not for personal 
benefit or gain.  Electronic communications traveling to or from a university 
employee or agent, or through campus networks, is to be for lawful purposes 
only and consistent with other university policies.  B. Incidental Personal Use 
University communications services may be used for incidental personal use consistent with the provisions of the Electronic Communications Policy under, 
"Allowable Use."  Incidental use is limited to electronic communications sent on 
behalf of an individual; systematically
 sending electronic communications on behalf of an organization outside the University (not-for-profit or for-profit) would 
transgress UC policy.  As an example, Sally may send a short electronic note 
inviting Julia to a fund-raiser at the Santa Barbara Natural History Museum.  She 
is not to use University electronic communications services to send a number of 
people a note promoting the event on behalf of the Santa Barbara Natural History 
Museum, nor is she to use her electronic address as a r.s.v.p. or point of contact 
for the event (or for other activities not affiliated with the University).  C.  Concerns About Use 
Every electronic communications user (for definition, see Electronic Communications Policy, Appendix A) is responsible for reading and abiding by 
the Electronic Communications Policy and the Interim Implementing Guidelines.  
Each supervisor is charged with resolving concerns about electronic 
communications use/misuse within his/her jurisdiction.  For students, concerns 
may be registered with the supervisor of the unit through which email services 
are provided.  As appropriate, the supervisor may redirect unresolved concerns 
to the next higher authority within his/her organization, consistent with 
procedures for handling other complaints or grievances.   
 2 of 6
Policy or Guideline clarification may be obtained from the Campus Policy Coordinator, Office of the Vice Chancellor, Administrative Services, currently 
Meta.Clow@vcadmin.ucsb.edu.  III.  Access  
 Access to University electronic communications services may be provided to faculty and staff by the department with whom they are affiliated through a mail service provider.  Students may be provided access to electronic communications by their departments, 
college, library, residence, or directly by a campus electronic communications services provider (Microcomputer Laboratory, and/or Information Systems and Computing).  IV. Notification 
 A. Faculty and Staff 
If the responsible department administrator decides to provide new faculty and staff with access to electronic communications services, she/he is to assure that 
the new faculty/staff is provided with a copy of The University Electronic 
communications Policy and Implementing Guidelines, or the web address for the 
Policy and Guidelines with sufficient instruction to access them on-line. 
 
Department administrators, or their designees, are to inform all of their faculty 
and staff that using electronic communications services implies that the user (a) 
has read and understood the Policy and Guidelines, and (b) acknowledges that 
usage which does not comply with the policy or guidelines may result in 
sanctions as defined within the policy.  Management and Administrative Officers 
may wish to include this policy requirement in their department’s new employee 
orientation packets/check off procedures and annotate the date when the new 
employee has been notified.  Department administrators or their designees are to 
inform their faculty and staff of the department’s electronic communications 
service provider’s mail/files back-up practices.  Electronic communications 
service providers are to describe their back-up practices to the departments they 
serve.  B. Students Students are to receive from the unit or electronic communications service provider with whom they contract, at the time they sign their service contract, (1) 
a copy of the Policy and Guidelines, or (2) the web address and instruction for 
accessing the Policy and Guidelines on-line.  The mail services provider shall 
add language to the service contract which states:  "Use of electronic 
communications services implies acknowledgment that you will use the services 
consistent with the University Electronic communications Policy and Campus 
Implementing Guidelines, and that usage which does not comply with the policy 
or guidelines may result in sanctions as defined within the policy."  Also, the mail 
services provider is to send a note to all existing student clients which states:  
"Continued use of electronic communications services implies acknowledgment 
that you will use the services consistent with the University Electronic 
communications Policy and Campus Implementing Guidelines, and that usage 
which does not comply with the policy or guidelines may result in sanctions as 
defined within the policy."  Students shall also be informed of their mail provider’s 
mail/files back-up practices when they sign their contracts for services.  V. Directory Information 
 A. Faculty and Staff 
Faculty and staff electronic communications addresses may be published in the campus directory.  The campus directory is intended for university business 3 of 6
purposes.  However, addresses may become known from electronic contexts viewed outside of the University if messages containing addresses are posted to 
public news groups, listservers, web pages, etc.  B. Students Student electronic communications addresses may be published unless the student requests that his/her address be withheld.  Campus electronic 
communications providers to students may provide an alternate (electronic 
pseudonym) address.  However, providers shall caution students that their 
addresses still may become known from electronic contexts viewed outside of 
the University if the students' messages that contain their addresses are posted 
to public news groups, listservers, web pages, etc. 
 VI.  End of Affiliation 
 As with other university resources such as telephones and mail, when a faculty, student, 
or staff member leaves the department or University, the department (or for students, the 
mail services provider) may stop providing electronic communications services to the 
individual.  The department may choose, where available, to provide electronic 
forwarding/redirecting of mail to another address.  If the department continues to provide 
access to university electronic communications services, use must conform to the 
University Electronic communications Policy and Campus Guidelines.  VII. Service Restrictions 
 A. Electronic communications service providers are responsible for protecting and 
maintaining the integrity of the email system.  The Email Service Manager, the 
person who has administrative responsibility for an electronic communications 
system, is charged with taking the necessary actions, including restricting or 
refusing email services, to prevent, to the extent possible, disruption of email 
services and damage to users of email.   B. Email services also may be suspended or restricted by the email user’s 
Department Head, Dean, or Vice Chancellor under the conditions described in 
Section V.C. of the Email Policy.    C. Consistent with law and other University policies, the affected email user shall be 
notified of the reason for the restriction and the scope and length of the 
restriction by the authority who suspended or restricted service, at the earliest 
possible opportunity.  If services are restricted, they may be restored as soon as 
the reason for the restriction has been remedied.  The user is to be notified when 
service is restored.  D. Appeals to the decision to suspend or restrict electronic communications services 
without the user's consent shall be treated consistent with campus processes for 
complaints and grievances.  VIII. Inspection, Monitoring, or Disclosure 
 A. General The University does not routinely inspect, monitor, or disclose the contents of electronic communications without the email holder's consent.  However, subject 
to the Electronic communications Policy definitions and the requirements for 
authorization and notification, the University may inspect, monitor, or disclose 
electronic communications without the consent of the email holder when:  l. required by and consistent with law, or 
4 of 6
 2. there is substantiated reason (as defined in the UC Electronic 
communications Policy, Appendix A, Definitions) to believe that 
violations of law or of University policies listed in UC Electronic 
communications Policy Appendix C have taken place, or   
3. there are compelling circumstances as defined in UC Electronic 
communications Policy Appendix A, or  4. under time-dependent, critical operational circumstances as defined 
in UC Electronic communications Policy Appendix A, Definitions.  Under all circumstances, the least intrusive action necessary is to be taken to 
address the concern.  Consistent with law and other University policies, the 
approving authority is to notify the affected individual(s) of what has been done 
and the reason(s) for it at the earliest possible opportunity.  Each Office of the Vice Chancellor with the authority to approve non-consensual 
access for conditions 1-4 will keep records of their respective approvals of 
authorized or emergency non-consensual access.  UC Policy requires the 
campus to publish, where consistent with law, an annual report summarizing 
instances of authorized or emergency non-consensual access.  Appeals to the decision to inspect, monitor, or disclose electronic 
communications without the holder's consent shall be treated consistent with 
campus processes for complaints and grievances.  B. Faculty 
The inspection, monitoring, or disclosure of a faculty members’ email records without their permission for conditions 1-4 must be approved by the Executive 
Vice Chancellor in advance and in writing.  The Executive Vice Chancellor will 
seek University Counsel's advice prior to approving the written request.  The 
Executive Vice Chancellor will seek, in writing and in advance, the advice of the 
Academic Senate.  The Academic Senate may choose to refer the request to a 
special standing committee of the Academic Senate.  The standing committee 
may consist of representatives from the Committee on Academic Freedom, the 
Committee on Faculty Welfare, and the Committee on Privilege and Tenure.  The 
Chair of the Academic Senate may chair the standing committee.  The committee 
will consider recommendations from, as appropriate, the Vice Chancellor for 
Administrative Services and the Chief of Police.  Advice from the Academic 
Senate or its subcommittee is to be given to the Executive Vice Chancellor in 
writing in a timely manner, not to exceed four weeks.  There may be occasions when the committee can not be assembled, and 
permitting an individual continued access to electronic communications services 
is life threatening, risks grave harm to an individual(s), or risks severe damage to 
critical university data bases/operating systems.  In instances as defined in the 
UC Electronic communications Policy, Appendix A, Definitions, the least intrusive 
action necessary may be taken without authorization to address the concern 
immediately.  Appropriate authorization must then be sought without delay 
following the procedures for faculty described above.  C. Staff Requests to inspect, monitor, or disclose email records held by staff members, agents of the University, or unaffiliated users (with access by approved contract) 
without the email holder’s consent for conditions 1-4, must be reviewed and 
approved by the Vice Chancellor for Administrative Services in advance and in 5 of 6
writing.  The Vice Chancellor for Administrative Services will seek University Counsel's advice prior to approving the written request. The Vice Chancellor for 
Administrative Services, as appropriate, will seek the recommendation of the 
Director of Human Resources and the Chief of Police. 
 
There may be occasions when permitting an individual continued access to 
electronic communications services is life threatening, risks grave harm to an individual(s), or risks severe damage to critical university data bases/operating 
systems.  In instances as defined in the UC Electronic communications Policy, 
Appendix A, Definitions, the least intrusive action necessary may be taken 
without authorization to address the concern immediately.  Appropriate 
authorization must then be sought without delay following the procedures for staff 
described above.  D. Students Requests to inspect, monitor, or disclose email records without the consent of the student email holder for conditions 1-4 must be reviewed and approved by the 
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs in advance and in writing.  The Vice 
Chancellor for Student Affairs will seek University Counsel's advice prior to 
approving the written request.  The Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs will seek, 
as appropriate, the recommendation of the Dean of Students and the Chief of 
Police. 
 
There may be occasions when permitting an individual continued access to 
electronic communications services is life threatening, risks grave harm to an individual(s), or risks severe damage to critical university data bases/operating systems.  In instances as defined in the UC Electronic communications Policy, 
Appendix A, Definitions, the least intrusive action necessary may be taken 
without authorization to address the concern immediately.  Appropriate 
authorization must then be sought without delay following the procedures for 
students described above. 6 of 6
