Custom Search
Policy Code: 
1392Approval Authority: 
Chancellor
Policy Type: 
University Policy
Policy Owner: 
Academic Affairs
Responsible Office: 
Information Technology Services - 828.251.6404
Administration
Email Accounts Policy
 (https://administration.unca.edu/print/135)
I. PurposeEstablishes policies and procedures for the setup and maintenance of Email accounts.
Note that Email accounts provide no access to University information resources, data,
or administrative servers.
II. ScopeApplies to UNC Asheville faculty, staff, students, alumni, retirees, volunteers, interns,
vendors, guests and others requiring access to email services.
III. PolicyInformation Technology Services (ITS) is responsible for administering the UniversityÕs
Google Email system. The use of University Email accounts is a privilege extended to
advance the teaching and learning, research, service, and administrative work that
constitute the UniversityÕs mission. Email accounts may not be used for private gain.
Use of the account must follow the guidelines in the UniversityÕs Computer Use Policy.
Revision History

A. Staff, Faculty, and Student Accounts
Full or part-time employees (whether classified as faculty or staff) and all students are
assigned an individual Email account.
B. Generic AccountsWhen in the best interest of the University and upon request of unit heads, ITS will
create Ògeneric emailÓ accounts to serve specific purposes not well served by personal
accounts. The Ò
ITS Generic Email Account Request Form
 (http://its.unca.edu/policies-
and-forms)
Ó can be found on the ITS website. Typically these accounts represent
functions such as online reference service in the library and can be accessed by
multiple authorized personnel. These accounts are reviewed annually to verify their
continuing utility and use. Disused accounts are deactivated.
C. Retiree AccountsRetiree email accounts may be offered to retiring faculty and staff during their exit
interview with Human Resources. Retiree email accounts are hosted by Google in a
separate domain, ret.unca.edu. Although email and documents may not be migrated
to retiree accounts, ITS will assist retirees in migrating their Contacts to their retiree
account. Retiree accounts are provided without support by ITS.
D. Alumni Accounts
Alumni email accounts will be offered to graduates of UNC Asheville. Alumni accounts
are hosted by Google in a separate domain, alumni.unca.edu. Alumni accounts are
provided without support by ITS.
E. Contract, Non-Agency Personnel, Volunteer, Vendor, and Guest AccountsAccounts may be requested by a department head for contract, non-agency
personnel, volunteers, vendors, or guests. The Ò
Non Agency Account Request Form
(http://its.unca.edu/policies-and-forms)
Ó can be found on the ITS website.
Email accounts will typically be limited to employees of the University. On
occasion, however, an account may be granted to a contractor, non-agency
personnel, volunteer, vendor, or guest supporting a University unit, provided

the supervision Department Head receives Vice Chancellor approval.
Limited, fixed-term authorization for access by contract, non-agency
personnel, volunteers, vendors, or guests requires:
! A written request from the director or manager of the unit;
! Such authorization will typically be limited to a maximum of 6 months;
! Signed acceptance by a unit employee or the director/manager accepting
responsibility for the actions of the contract, non-agency personnel,
volunteers, vendors, or guests;
! Approval by the appropriate Vice Chancellor;
! The contract, non-agency personnel, volunteers, vendors, or guestÕs
acceptance of University policies and procedures related to accessing
University computers, networks, and data evidenced by the volunteerÕs
completion of the "
Non Agency Account Request Form
(http://its.unca.edu/policies-and-forms)
".It is the responsibility of the department head to notify ITS when the account should
be deactivated if this occurs before the expiration date.
IV. Password Expiration GuidelinesPasswords on all administrative email accounts expire every 90 days. Prior to the
expiration date, users will receive an electronic message, prompting them to reset
their password.
V. Account Deletions
Email accounts held by faculty and staff members are automatically deactivated after
5:00 p.m. on the date entered as ÒLast Work DateÓ by the Human Resources
Department. Email accounts for students are deactivated during an account cleanup
process (typically performed after the census date in the fall and spring semesters).
Accounts are disabled for any student that is deemed inactive.

Associated Forms: 
Account Request Forms
 (http://its.unca.edu/policies-and-forms)
VII. De
!
nitions
Information Technology Security Officer is a person or persons designated by the UNC
Asheville CIO who can verify that accounts are set up in accordance with the data
manager's directives.
HELPFUL LINKS
Strategic Plan
Facts & Figures
University Advancement
Finance
Athletics
Human Resources
LATEST NEWSAlli Marshall to be Featured in Reading at UNC Asheville
LEARN MORE
CONNECT    Chancellor's Office, CPO 1400
One University Heights
Asheville, NC 28804
Office: 828.251.6500
Fax:  828.251.6495

Email: 
chanoffice@unca.edu

