      
     
       
         
    
   
  
    
         
         
         
  
     
  
      
        
  
       
      
   
     
          
    
   
     
  
    
   
    
    
  
    
  
   
    
   
           
           
     
    
       
       
        
     
        
  
   
   
USA Faculty/Staff Computer Use Policy 
User Privileges and Responsibilities 
Authorization
. In general, USA colleges and departments are responsible for 
the allocation of computer resources for their faculty and staff. 
No one should 
use any University computer or network facility without authorization 
from the appropriate personnel in that office or department. 
University 
computers and networks are to be used for University purposes, i.e., to further 

the educational programs of the University. Any attempt to disrupt, degrade or 

improperly gain access to University computer resources is prohibited. 
Unauthorized wiring, altering or damaging of University
-owned computer 
equipment, including network hardware and software, is also prohibited. 
IDs/Passwords
. No one should share their 
password 
with another 
person, 
nor obtain another person's password by any unauthorized means. 

Deliberately and inappropriately observing, recording, accessing, using or 
transmitting passwords, acc
ount numbers, e
-mail addresses, phone numbers 
or credit card numbers belonging to other people is strictly prohibited. 
Administrative Devices
. An "administrative device" refers to a thin client or 
microcomputer used to access administrative computer syst
ems (e.g., 
Student Information Systems and Financial Systems). Access to 
administrative devices is limited to individuals engaging in official University 

business. All persons given unique passwords and sign
-ons are required to 
sign a Statement of Accountability, which states that this information is not to 

be shared with any other individual. (Authorized personnel should see 
Information Systems Security Policy 
for furt
her details concerning use and 
misuse of administrative devices.) 
Email
. The University email systems are to be used for University business 
only 
--not for personal business or personal gain. Users have full 
responsibility for all messages they transmit 
through the University
's 
computers, networks and systems. Consequently, all laws and rules against 
fraud, harassment, obscenity, etc., which govern all University 

communications also apply to email. Abuse of the email system may be 
grounds for disciplinary action, up to and including termination. 
No Spam
. "Spam", the practice of mass
-broadcasting unsolicited email (e.g., 
commercial advertisements, chain mail, pornographic materials, political 

    
    
          
  
   
    
    
   
   
   
        
   
     
     
              
   
   
      
  
  
   
    
     
  
     
           
         
       
  
  
        
       
           
       
        
      
     
     
   
        
  
    
    
     
   
    
    
  
  
  
  
    
        
lobbying, hate speech, racial diatribes, and religious prosely
tizing), 
is strictly 
prohibited at USA
. Viruses
. Users 
are advised NOT to download 
email 
attachments as these 
may contain malware or viruses that could infect University computers and/or 
networks. It is illegal to knowingly replicate or transmit computer viruses, or 
otherwise deliberately damage the s
ystems or files of other people. Users 
should install university provided 
Anti
-Virus software 
to provide protection 
against malware. 
Confidentiality and Security
. No one without specific authorization may 
read, alter, or delete any other person's computer files or email, even if the 
equipment and software have that capability. 
No email system is completely 
secure
. Consequently, email should not be used to transmit computer 
passwords, credit card numbers, or other confidential information about 

students or employees. Routine maintenance of the email systems may 
require or inadvertently lead to viewing some pieces. The CSC will respect the 
privacy of such mail, and will not reveal its contents to any other parties. 
However, if activities in violation of law or University regulations are 
discovered through this procedure, the CSC may report such information to 

the appropriate authorities. Departments are advised that information subject 
to 
confidentiality regulations 
should not be transmitted via these electronic 
media without prior written approval from the appropriate administrative 
offices. 
No "Hacking" or "Cracking"
. Deliberately invading the privacy of others by 
attempting to gain unauthorized access to any account or system is strictly 
prohibited. 
Internet
. All computer accounts provided to faculty/staff are intended for the 
University's work. Many University departments do encourage their 
employees to use the Internet to educate themselves, provided time and 
equipment are available. As a University employee, you are accountable for 
how you use your time on the job. In consideration of other network users, 

employees should limit bandwidth
-intensive activities (e.g., playing or 
downloading network
-based games, music or video) to those that are required 
as part of their employment. University employees are prohibited from using 

University equipment for private money
-making enterprises. Due to the real 
danger of transmitting computer viruses, extreme care should be taken in 

downloading executable files from the Internet onto Uni
versity computers. It is 
unacceptable to use University equipment or networks to view, download, 

   
       
   
           
     
    
     
    
      
  
  
     
      
  
     
   
   
   
   
    
   
    
  
   
      
  
         
   
   
      
   
   
       
    
   
           
  
      
  
  
   
         
       
      
      
       
   
      
   
   
      
 post, print or send pornography, or other sexually explicit, profane, obscene, 
hostile, or blatantly offensive and intimidating material, including hate speech
, threats, harassing communications (as defined by law), or information that 
violates any state or federal laws. Using University equipment/networks for the 

sale of weapons, drugs or illegal substances is strictly prohibited. 
Web Pages
. All web pages running on University
-owned servers must adhere 
to USA's Web Policies, which can be viewed in their entirety from the 
USA 
Web Services web site 
. These policies govern the management of those 
electronic 
documents that represent USA and are accessible on the Internet. 
Individual University departments are responsible for the accuracy and 
integrity of the contents of their web pages, and have full responsibility for 

what they publish. The Web Services office periodically reviews USA web 
sites and links to ensure that the University is being represented appropriately 
and that all official symbols are being used correctly. Any objectionable 

content found in USA web sites or links will be subject to laws and ru
les 
against fraud, harassment, obscenity, etc. 
Software Licensing (copyright laws)
. All faculty/staff should be aware that 
uploading or downloading copyrighted material, violating the intellectual 
property rights of others, or illegally sharing trade sec
rets is 
strictly prohibited 
at USA
. All reproduction and use of computer software on University 
equipment or by University employees or students in pursuit of University 

busine
ss or instruction must be in accordance with copyright law (as set forth 
in Title 17, United States Code) and the manufacturer's condition of sale. (See 

the USA Software Policy, printed in its entirety at the end of this document.) 
Violations/Consequence
s In addition to all guidelines in the policies stated here, all USA employees are 
subject to the policies and disciplinary procedures outlined in the Staff 
Employee Handbook and the Faculty Handbook. Violations of any USA 
computer policies incur the same types of disciplinary measures as other 

University policies or 
state or federal laws (up to and including criminal 
prosecution). 
Revised: August 10, 2016 

