View/download the New Student Quick Reference Technology Guide È
Hampton University Appropriate Use of Technology Policy
Hampton University Appropriate Use of Technology Policy
Hampton University provides and maintains technologies to advance teaching, learning, research, and
administrative activities in support of the University's mission.  The University views access to all of its
technology resources as a privilege that is granted to members of the University community so long as it
is used responsibly.  Hampton University reserves the right to monitor and investigate violations or
suspected violations of policy and security.
Students utilizing technology resources shall be held to the standards of conduct set forth elsewhere in
the Student Handbook.  The faculty and staff shall be held to the standards of conduct set forth
elsewhere in the Faculty and Staff Handbooks, respectively.  All University rules, particularly those
pertaining to the Code of Conduct and the consequences of acts of dishonesty, harassment, plagiarism,
piracy and illegal or inappropriate use of software are applicable to the use of computers, cell phones,
personal data assistants (PDAs), and other technologies.
Users can have a reasonable expectation of privacy, except those times when system administrators find
cause to investigate network activity for purposes related to operations and compliance with University
policy and federal and state laws.  The vice president of student affairs will process violations of
University policy by students.   The director of human resources and the provost will process violation of
University policy by faculty and/or staff. Infringements made known to the assistant provost for
technology by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), Business Software Alliance, MGM
and NBC Universal Properties and the like will be processed by the assistant provost for technology with
written notification to the vice president of student affairs or director of human resources and/or provost
where applicable.
Users found in violation of this policy may direct appeals to the vice president for student affairs, the
Technology Guide : Appropriate Use of Technology

director of human resources and/or the provost within three business days.  A written response will be
provided within ten business days.
The following is intended to ensure that all members of the University computing community can be
afforded privacy in his/her work; that no one will be unwillingly subjected to abusive behavior of others
using the system; that the resources available to the community are not consumed by only a few
individuals; and that electronic vandalism does not destroy computer resources.  It should be
understood clearly that the following points are illustrative and not all-inclusive.
1. Only authorized persons defined as students, faculty, staff and members of Hampton
University sanctioned programs, may use Hampton University's computing facilities and
equipment (computers, printers, networks, software, etc.) for legitimate purposes relating to
teaching, coursework, research, and administration at Hampton University.
2. Members of an academic community are entitled to privacy of their work.  It is a violation of
University policy for an individual faculty, staff or student to share their own login
information with others to use, to obtain a password that belongs to someone else, or to
access another user's files or e-mail account on the network.  These violations are forms of
theft and will not be tolerated.
3. Any faculty, staff or student may not access any file that is not their own unless that file has
been made publicly accessible.  This access prohibits the reading, writing, and editing of
directories and passwords belonging to others.  This prohibition includes, but is not limited
to, files left on a computer hard drive or any removable storage device, i.e., zip disks, thumb
drive, CD-ROM/DVD. Posting a message under someone else's name is prohibited.
4. Taking advantage of another person who inadvertently leaves a computer without logging
off is no different than entering an unlocked room and stealing, reading a personal letter, or
destroying property.
5. Using any technology resource to annoy or harass or defame is prohibited.  This applies to
the use of phone mail, electronic mail, conferencing, news group bulletin boards and
message facilities.  This includes but is not limited to flooding individuals or news groups
with large volumes of electronic mail designed to disrupt and/or annoy.
6. The Virginia Code, Section 18.2-372 & 374 sets forth the definition of obscene material. The
code also states that the distribution, production or sale of obscene items is illegal, and
punishable by law. Federal law also criminalizes the transportation of such materials in
interstate commerce. Hampton University must comply with these laws and will enforce
them among all students, faculty, staff and visitors.
Using the Hampton University network to view pornographic materials is a violation of
University policy. It is also a violation of University policy to attempt to circumvent network
security systems. Furthermore, the use of Hampton University computers and network
services to create or post pornographic and/or obscene material on a Hampton University
computer or server or onto any online community such as Face Book, My Space or Black
Planet, is a violation of University policy. It is also against University policy to utilize any
university technological resource to create, post or maintain any derogatory information

pertaining to another individual. 
Violators will be subject to the disciplinary action of
Violators will be subject to the disciplinary action of
expulsion and/or termination.
expulsion and/or termination.
7. Knowingly engaging in any activity that might damage the operating systems or the data
stored on any computer, removing or modifying the system files, or disrupting services is a
violation of University Policy.
8. Knowingly distributing a virus or any attack on the network resources or any individual
computer is a violation of University Policy.
9. Disseminating chain letters, sending unauthorized mass emails for personal gain and other
"spreading schemes" is an inappropriate use of the network.  Users participating in such
activities may have their e-mail privileges restricted or revoked and may also be subject to
disciplinary action of expulsion and/or termination.
10. The Virginia Code 18.2-152.5, 
states, a person is guilty of the crime of computer invasion
when he uses a computer network and intentionally examines without authority any
employment, salary, credit or any other financial or personal information relating to any
other person.
  "Examination" under this section requires that offenders to review the
information relating to any other person after the time at which the offender knows or
should know that he is without authority to view the information displayed.
Hampton University must comply with these laws and will enforce them among
Hampton University must comply with these laws and will enforce them among
all students, faculty, staff and visitors.
all students, faculty, staff and visitors.
11. Attempting to circumvent the action of system software written to implement protection
mechanisms is prohibited. Protection mechanisms include but are not limited to the
establishment of accounts, passwords, disk quotas, and time and space limitations.  Any
attempt to get around the protection mechanisms established by the University is a violation
of the disciplinary code.  If you find that some action on your part has placed you in violation
of the mechanisms, you must report the incident to the Assistant Provost for Technology
and/or the Dean of Men or Dean of Women.
12. Unauthorized copying and/or downloading of music, software or other media constitute a
violation of copyright laws.  Such behavior is a violation of University Policy and the United
States laws. Activity not authorized by copyright owners, their agents, or the law is
prohibited and may be punishable by law.  All unauthorized media must be removed from
any computer on the university's network.
13. The University's systems or networks cannot be used for personal gain; for example, selling
access to your user id or to university systems or networks, or by performing work for profit
with university resources in a manner not authorized by the university.

©2018 Hampton University
 Hampton, VA 23668 : 757.727.5000

