
 
Responsible University Officer(s):
 

 
Vice President for Information Technology
 
Policy Owner(s):
 

 
Chief Information Security Officer
 
Policy contact(s):
 

 
Brian Dahlin
 
Date Revised:
 
Apr 13, 2015
 
Effective Date:
 
Aug 9, 2010
 
POLICY STATEMENT
 
University information is a valuable asset to the University of Minnesota and requires appropriate protection. 
Unauthorized use or disclosure of data 
protected by laws or contractual obligations could cause severe harm to the 
University or members of the University community, and could subject the University to fines or government 
sanctions.
 
In order to manage these risks, units and University community
 
members must ensure that their electronic devices 
and other resources which store, transmit, or process University information meet the information security processes 
and standards contained in the
 
appendices
of this policy, and all pertinent laws or contractual obligations. Examples of 
standards include controls related to data storage, access controls, security protection software, and awareness.
 
This policy also applies to personall
y owned devices used for University business.
 
Enforcement
 
Employees must report known non
-
compliance with any requirement of this policy to University Information Security 
(
security@umn.edu
).
 
Individual University co
mmunity members who do not comply with this policy or the University's information security 
standards may be denied access to University IT resources and may be subject to disciplinary action up to and 
including termination.
 
Exceptions
 
Units unable to meet
 
a requirement within the information security standards must obtain an exception through the 
exception request procedure.
 
Units may specify additional more stringent requirements within their physical or administrative areas of responsibility.
 
The Univers
ity Chief Information Officer or delegate may allow exceptions to this policy after consultation with the unit 
and the appropriate compliance officer.
 
REASON FOR POLICY
 
This policy will help to:
 

 
comply with legal and contractual requirements to protect 
data;
 

 
safeguard University IT resources from accidental or intentional damage and the data stored or accessed by these 
IT resources from alteration or theft of data; and
 


 
designate the appropriate level of security requirements for securing IT resources
 
PRO
CEDURES
 
Requesting an Exception to the Information Security Policy
 
Using the Information Security Standards
 
FORMS/INSTRUCTIONS
 
There are 
no forms associated with this policy.
 
APPENDICES
 
Account Management Standard
 
Application Access Control Standard
 
Authentication Standard
 
Backup and Recovery of Data Standard
 
Backup and Recovery of Software, System Configur
ation Standard
 
Change Control Standard
 
Data Center Standard
 
Data Storage Standard
 
Device Encryption Standard
 
Device Firewall Standard
 
Device Physical Security Stand
ard
 
Information Security Awareness, Education and Training Standard
 
Log Management Standard
 
Management of End User Device Standard
 
Media Sanitization Standard
 
Network Control S
tandard
 
Network Firewall Standard
 
Operating System Access Control Standard
 
Securit
y Patching Standard
 
Technical Vulnerability Management Standard
 
User Administrative Privilege Standard
 
Vendor/Supplier Management Standard
 
Virus/Malware Protection Standard
 
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
 
1.
 
If my smart phone or other electronic device only supports use of numbers, not 
alphabetical and 
special characters, is that acceptable authentication?
 
For electronic devices that do not support use of complex passwords for authentication, use a non
-
obvious 
number sequence. For example, do not use your employee ID or part of your 
phone number. See
 
Account 
Management Standard related information
 
for complex password features.
 
2.
 
On my University
-
owned computer, why do I need to use 
a password after the screensaver is 
activated and why is the time so short?
 
The password helps protect you from malicious use of your computer or others viewing of your display when 
your computer is not attended. The screensaver prevents anyone who steals 
or finds your laptop from using 
the computer, acting as you, stealing data, etc. See
 
Operating System Access Control Standard
 
for other 
settings that help protect data and your computer.
 
3.
 
How does th
e Information Security policy relate to vendor solutions?
 

Vendor solutions also need to meet the Information Security Policy and the information security controls 
contained in the policy.
 
CONTACTS
 
Subject
 
Contact
 
Phone
 
Fax/Email
 
Primary Contact(s)
 
Brian Dahlin
 
612
-
625
-
1505
 
bdahlin@umn.edu
 
HIPAA Compliance Medical Records, PHI
 
Medical Records,PHI
 
Lori Ketola
 
612
-
626
-
5844
 
ljketola@umn.edu
 
FERPA Compliance
 
 
Student Records
 
Stacey Tidball
 
612
-
626
-
0075
 
tidball@umn.edu
 
PCI Compliance Credit Card Data
 
Accounts Receivable Services
 
612
-
625
-
2392
 
pmtcard@umn.edu
 
DEFINITIONS
 
Authentication
 
A veri
fication that substantiates a person's identity.
 
Compensating Control
 
An alternate but effective means of meeting a security requirement.
 
Compliance Officer
 
Representative of the University who is assigned compliance responsibilities for a particular area.
 
Control
 
A control is any administrative, management, technical, or legal method that is used to prevent, detect or 
correct risks. Controls are also known as safeguards or countermeasures. Controls include practices, 
policies, procedures, programs, techniq
ues, technologies, guidelines, and organizational structures.
 
Control Level
 
A level assigned to a control at each security level.
 

 
Required
 
-
 
Must apply the control.
 

 
Recommended
 
-
 
Should apply the control. It is not required due to limitations in available 
technology or 
because the control could potentially place an undue burden on a unit to implement. Units should 
evaluate the implications of not implementing the control and determine whether or not a compensating 
control has/can be implemented.
 

 
Optional
 
-
 
Evaluate and apply the control as appropriate.
 

Critical Server
 
A critical server is a server assigned the high or medium security level.
 
Data
 
Information collected, stored, transferred, or reported for any purpose, whether electronically or hard copy.
 
Ente
rprise system or application
 
System or application that:
 

 
can be used by all of the University of Minnesota, including also system campuses and all units;
 

 
follows University policies and standards;
 

 
fits into the University's enterprise architecture; and
 

 
has
 
been approved by the University's enterprise architect.
 
Health Care Component
 
Unit(s) of the University that provide health care or are part of the health plan or are designated by the 
University as health care components covered under HIPAA. These covere
d health care components 
include units that provide health care ("Provider Components") and the Health Plan of the University.
 
Information Technology Resource (IT resource)
 
Facilities, technologies, and information resources used for University information
 
processing, transfer, 
storage, and communications. Included in this definition are computer labs, classroom technologies, 
computing and electronic communications devices and services, e
-
mail, networks, telephones (including 
cellular), voice mail, fax tran
smissions, video, multimedia, and instructional materials. This definition is not all 
inclusive but rather reflects examples of equipment, supplies and services. This also includes services that 
are University owned, leased, operated or provided by the Uni
versity or otherwise connected to University 
resources, such as cloud and Software
-
as
-
a
-
Service (SaaS), or any other connected/hosted service 
provided.
 
Private Data
 
For the purposes of this policy, private
-
highly restricted and private
-
restricted are defin
ed in Administrative 
Policy:
 
Data Security Classification
 
.
 
Security Level
 
A level (high, medium, or low) assigned to data or IT resource following the process in Administrative 
Policy:
 
Data Security Classification
.
 
Server
 
A computer which provides services for other computers connected to it via a network. Common examples 
are file servers, web servers, mail servers, and database servers
.
 
Standard
 
Defines information security controls by which an individual or IT resource within the scope must adhere to.
 
Unit
 
A unit is an University entity such as a campus, college, program, or center.
 
University Community Member
 
A University community me
mber is a student, faculty or staff member, University guest, volunteer, 
contractor, or employee of an affiliated entity.
 
University Data Network
 
The University data network includes University telecommunications facilities such as the UM data network 
with all wired or wireless links including departmental networks, ResNet, UM Wireless, academic and 
administrative network facilities, network facilit
ies serving affiliates or tenants, and system campus networks.
 
University
-
Owned Computers
 
All computers purchased using University related funds, irrespective of whether the source of those funds is 
the legislature, research grants, sponsored, foundation 
or departmental budgets.
 

User Level Account
 
An account or logon ID on a computer that is authorized to run programs and applications and use the 
computer, but not to install programs or change the system configuration.
 
RESPONSIBILITIES
 
University Employee 
and University Community Member
 

 
Review and comply with this policy, the information security standards, and related procedures, as well as 
pertinent laws or contractual obligations.
 

 
Notify administrative and technical staff of private
-
highly restricted or 
private
-
restricted data that is stored on 
computers and other electronic devices.
 

 
Work with their IT Director, IT Service Director, or Department Head through the exception request process 
if needed.
 

 
Report non
-
compliance with this policy to University Inf
ormation Security (email
 
security@umn.edu
).
 
Compliance Officer
 

 
Monitor data security compliance.
 

 
Investigate allegations and incidents of non
-
compliance.
 

 
Recommend appropriate corrective and disciplinary actions.
 

 
Develop and maintain policies related to the compliance requirements.
 

 
Oversee and coordinate breach notification processes.
 

 
Report non
-
compliance with this policy to University Information Security (email
 
security@um
n.edu
).
 
Technical Staff
 

 
Take reasonable action to secure IT resources in accordance with this policy, information security standards 
and related procedures, as well as pertinent laws or contractual obligations.
 

 
Participate in campus and University
-
wide tec
hnical and security groups or forums.
 

 
Respond to technical questions from users related to securing IT resources.
 

 
Report non
-
compliance with this policy to University Information Security (email
 
security@umn.edu
).
 
Ca
mpus, College, and Department Administrators
 

 
Assign the responsibility of managing the risk and identifying specific security requirements associated 
within the collegiate or departmental unit.
 

 
Create, disseminate, and enforce local security requirements 
to comply with University
-
wide policies for IT 
resources under their control.
 

 
Provide oversight and assure the security of legally or contractually private data created, stored, or 
accessed by employees.
 

 
Manage the security gap analysis for data and IT res
ources for security control requirements.
 

 
Request exceptions to policy or information security standards, if needed.
 

 
Report non
-
compliance with this policy to University Information Security (email
 
security@umn.edu
).
 
University Chief Information Officer (CIO)
 

 
Delegated authority and responsibility for Information Technology security.
 

 
Designate individuals who have the responsibility and authority for information technology resources.
 

 
Designate individuals who have the
 
responsibility for information technology policies.
 
University Chief Information Security Officer or Designate
 

 
Delegated authority and responsibility for Information Technology security from the CIO.
 


 
Establish and maintain an Information Security Advisory
 
Committee to provide guidance on information 
security policy, standards, and procedures, requested exceptions to policies and information security 
standards, information security risk, information security incidents, and other information security related
 
matters.
 

 
Establish information security policies and standards to protect University data, other private data, and 
University IT resources. Review and approve final information security standards following the CIO 
approved process.
 

 
Establish a process to 
review exception requests to information security policies and standards.
 
University Enterprise Architect
 

 
Review and approve final information security standards following the CIO approved process.
 

 
Approve the listing of a system or application as an 
enterprise system or application.
 
Office of Information Technology (OIT) 
-
 
University Information Security
 

 
Manage the information security policies and standards exception process.
 

 
Provide guidance on information technology security issues.
 

 
Monitor and 
notify regarding potential intrusions.
 

 
Review reported and discovered security incidents.
 

 
Establish and publish the criteria upon which a server is determined to be a "critical server" and provide 
oversight for the vulnerability scan process.
 

 
Operational r
esponsibility to remove non
-
compliant electronic devices from the network and, as appropriate, 
retrieve equipment and data as part of an investigation.
 

 
Coordinate with the unit administrative and technical/security staff to assure that actions are taken as
 
necessary to protect University resources.
 

 
Coordinate with law enforcement, compliance offices, and the Office of the General Counsel.
 
Security Advisory Committee
 

 
Advise on information security issues.
 

 
Advise on exceptions to information security policies
 
and standards for high
-
level risks to the University.
 
RELATED INFORMATION
 
Related Policies
 

 
Administrative Policy:
 
Acceptable Use of Information Technology Resources
 

 
Administrative Policy:
 
Accepting Revenue Via Payment Cards
 
(Credit Cards PCI)
 

 
Administrative Policy:
 
Access to and Use of Physical Security Data
 

 
Administrative Policy:
 
Data Security Classification
 

 
Administrative Policy:
 
Internal Access to & Sharing University Information
 

 
Adm
inistrative Policy:
 
Managing Student Records
 
(FERPA)
 

 
Administrative Policy:
 
Protected Health Information
 

 
Administrative Policy:
 
Reporting and Notifying Individuals of Information Security Breaches
 
Related Laws and Regulations
 

 
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (
HIPAA)
 

 
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
 

 
Gramm
-
Leach Bliley 
(GLBA)
 

 
Minnesota Data Practices Act
 


 
Payment Card Industry 
-
 
Data Security Standard (PCI
-
DSS)
 
HISTORY
 
Amended:
 
April 2015 
-
 
Comprehensive 
Review, Major Revision. Title of the policy changed from Securing Private Data, 
Computers and Other Electronic Devices to Information Security. The content updated to reflect information 
security controls and Data Security Classification. Basic and Enhance
d Security for Computers and Other 
Electronic Devices procedure removed.
 
Effective:
 
August 2010
 
 

