 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. Purpose 
This Information Technology Appropriate Use Policy is authorized by the Boar
d of Regents, 
Appropriate Use Policy (2009-014) which charges each University System of Ge
orgia 
institution to develop policy that, at minimum, includes the Board policy guidelines.  Thes
e 
guidelines establish that the institution and its users have an obligation to abide by the
 
following standards of appropriate and ethical use: 
Ł  Use only those IT resources for which you have authorization 

Ł  Protect the access and integrity of IT resources 

Ł  Abide by applicable local, state, federal laws, university policies and r
espect the 
copyrights and intellectual property rights of others, including the legal use of
 copyrighted material 
Ł  Use IT resources only for their intended purpose 

Ł  Respect the privacy and personal rights of others 

Ł  Do no harm 
Therefore, the following Information Technology (IT) Appropriate Use Poli
cy statement 
(AUP) defines acceptable technology and information use practices, promotes a
n 
understanding of responsible use of university IT resources, seeks to protect the Unive
rsity™s 
IT resources, and preserves the relevant policies, regulations and laws. The 
policy is not 
intended to be exhaustive, and Georgia Southern University reserves the right to lim
it, restrict, 
or extend privileges and access to its information technology resources.  

  
 II. Policy Statement 
In support of its mission of teaching, scholarship, and service, Georgia Southern Unive
rsity 
provides access to IT resources for students, faculty, staff, and other authori
zed users within 
institutional priorities and financial capabilities. The IT resources of
 Georgia Southern 
University, including but not limited to, facilities, hardware, software, netw
orks, data, 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY APPROPRIATE USE POLICY 
Area: Technology 
Number:   
Subject: Appropriate Use 
Issued: 11/11/2010 
Applies To: University 
Revised: n/a 
Sources: Vice President of Information Technology  
Page(s): 
7               
Information Technology Appropriate Use Policy 
 
Page 2 of 7        Georgia Southern University 

 
information, and user accounts are the property of the State of Georgia. The use of the
se 
resources is a privilege granted by Georgia Southern University to authorized us
ers only.  
This AUP incorporates all applicable policies and regulations of the Georgi
a Southern 
University and the University System of Georgia as they related to adminis
tration, instruction, 
research and scholarly pursuits, including but not limited to, the Information Technolog
y 
Security Standards and Guidelines, the Intellectual Property Policy, the Misc
onduct in 
Research, and prior Institutional approval through the University's Instituti
onal Review Board 
for surveys and other projects utilizing human subjects.   

Georgia Southern University requires all persons authorized to use its IT res
ources to do so 
responsibly and in compliance with all local, state and federal laws, all contr
actual and license 
agreements, and all policies of Georgia Southern University and the Board of Rege
nts of the 
University System of Georgia. Authorized users of the University's IT res
ources must act 
responsibly to maintain the integrity and security of these resources.  

Each user of a university IT resource is ultimately responsible for the use
 of that resource and 
for the use of his or her access credentials. Persons violating this AUP are 
subject to 
disciplinary actions by the University including, but not limited to, forfeiture
 of their 
privileges.  

In the event that misuse of IT resources threatens to compromise the integri
ty or jeopardize 
the security of university resources or harm authorized users of those resources, t
he 
University's Chief Information Officer, or his or her designee, is authorized t
o take any and all 
necessary actions, including the immediate confiscation and/or disabling of a
 university 
resource or the temporary or permanent termination of user access credent
ials, to protect, 
investigate, and ensure the security and proper use of IT resources.  

All of Georgia Southern University IT resources and network facilities a
re subject to the 
provision of the Georgia Open Records Act, O.C.G.A. Sections 50-18-70 
et seq
.   Therefore, 
users of University IT resources shall have no expectation of privacy of mater
ials stored on or 
transmitted by University IT resources.   The University cannot and will
 not guarantee the 
privacy or confidentiality of computer files, electronic mail, or other informa
tion stored or 
transmitted by its IT resources.  The University reserves the right to a
ccess and examine any 
of its IT resources or devices attached to the University network upon rea
sonable belief that 
federal or state laws have been violated, where the University's contractual
 obligations or its 
operations may be impeded, to preserve the integrity of the system, to cooperate w
ith internal 
investigations, in compliance with lawfully issued subpoenas or civil discovery, and i
n cases 
of emergency.  

Students, employees and service providers are required to affirm their 
recognition of this 
policy at the beginning of their relationship with the University and periodically
 thereafter as 
determined by the Chief Information Officer. 
 
Information Technology Appropriate Use Policy 
 
Page 3 of 7        Georgia Southern University 

 
III. User Responsibilities 
The use of IT resources is granted based on acceptance of the following specifi
c 
responsibilities: 

1.
 Use only those computing and IT resources for which you have authorization.
  a.
 Misrepresenting a person's identity or relationship to the University whe
n 
obtaining access privileges or using technology is prohibited.  

 b.
 Use of any university information technology resource is restricted to those 

having proper authorization to use that particular resource. It is a violation of the
 
law and university policy to assist in, encourage, or conceal from authorities any
 
unauthorized use, or attempted unauthorized use, of any of the University's 

computers or network facilities.  

 c.
 Passwords to any information technology resource shall only be issued to 

authorized users. Password recipients are responsible for the protection of their 

access credentials (passwords) and shall not distribute them to other users.  

 d.
 Only those persons with proper authorization shall modify or reconfigure any 

university information technology resource or network facility.  

 2.
 Protect the access and integrity of computing and IT resources.
  a.
 Accessing, reading, altering, or deleting information or data of any kind wit
hout 
authorization is prohibited.  

 b.
 Users must take appropriate steps to secure protected, confidential and sensitive
 
information including personal identifying information such as social security 

numbers and birth dates.   

 c.
 No person shall circumvent or attempt to circumvent any system, resource limi
ts, 
access procedures, or security regulations established by the Chief Infor
mation 
Officer or his or her designee. 

 d.
 Only authorized devices shall be connected to the University network and no 

device shall be connected to the University's network or otherwise used in a 

manner that interferes with the authorized use of university resources.  The 

University reserves the right to restrict the use of any technologies that m
ay 
endanger the security, integrity or fair use of its information technology r
esources.  
 e.
 The University's information technology resources shall not be used to attempt 

unauthorized use, or to interfere with another person's legitimate use, of any 

computer, network facility or other technology resource.  
f.
 All computers that utilize campus network resources must have approved 

antivirus software that utilizes current virus definition files.  These computer
s 

Information Technology Appropriate Use Policy 
 
Page 4 of 7        Georgia Southern University 

 
include all University owned computers and all computers owned by faculty, 

students and staff that are used on the campus networks.  The removal, 

modification, or disabling of antivirus software on University owned computers 

without written consent by the Chief Information Officer or his or her designee
 is 
prohibited.  

 g.
 Third-party, hosted  services or systems operated on behalf of the University m
ust 
meet University security guidelines and provide assurances that the protec
tion of 
University information assets conforms to institutional standards, Board of 

Regents policy, Federal and State laws.  

 h.
 Users have an obligation to report suspected violations of this policy.  Reports 

should be directed to a University official such as the Information Technology 

Services Security Administrator, University Auditor, University Polic
e or the 
head administrator of the unit responsible for the particular system involved.  

Reports may also be provided to the Ethics and Reporting Hotline at:  
http://services.georgiasouthern.edu/internalaudit/contact.php
   3.
 Abide by applicable laws and USG policies and respect the copyrights an
d 
intellectual property rights of others, including the legal use of copyr
ighted 
software.
  a.
 Copying, installing, distributing, infringing, or otherwise using any softw
are, data, 
images, video, text, or other materials in violation of copyrights, trademarks, 

service marks patents, other intellectual property rights, contracts, or lice
nse 
agreements is prohibited. 

 b.
 All use of information technology resources shall be in compliance with federal 

and state copyright laws and in full conformance with the Georgia Regents Guide
 
to Understanding Copyright and Fair Use. 

 4.
 Use computing and IT resources only for the intended purposes.
  a.
 University information technology resources shall not be used for commercial
 
purposes without specific authorization from the Vice President for Business and 

Finance or his or her duly authorized designee. 

  b.
 All technology use shall be in full compliance with all provisions of the Campus 

Advertising, Sales and Solicitation Policy and Financial Transaction Polic
y.  
 c.
 University information technology resources shall not be used for personal 

political gain or as a vehicle of election to a public office. 

 5.
 Respect the privacy and personal rights of others.
  a.
 Authorized users shall take full responsibility for messages that they transm
it 
through the University's information technology systems. The University's 

information technology resources shall not be used to transmit or participate in 

Information Technology Appropriate Use Policy 
 
Page 5 of 7        Georgia Southern University 

 
any communications prohibited by law, including but not limited to fraudulent, 

harassing, obscene, or threatening messages. 

 b.
 It is a violation of this policy to tap a phone line or run a network sniffer or 

vulnerability scanner without authorization of the CIO. 

 c.
 It is a violation of this policy to access, attempt to access or use another pers
on™s 
access credentials or data without explicit authorization of the CIO. 

 d.
 It is a violation of this policy to access or copy another user's electronic ma
il, 
data, programs, or other files without explicit authorization of the CIO. 

 e.
 The unauthorized disclosure of information about employees or studen
ts is 
prohibited. 
 f.
 Users should use only those systems officially licensed or sanctioned by the 

University.  Users are cautioned about using free software or social interne
t sites 
for conducting University business.  There are substantial risks to the privacy
 and 
protection of information on such sites. 

 6.
 Do no harm.
 a.
 Technology shall be disposed of according to established procedures. No 

technology shall be implemented, us
ed or disposed of in such a way that causes 
harm to persons or animals, or violates environmental protection laws.   
 b.
 Technology used in research will conform to conditions of institutional approval 

through the University's Institutional Review Board for projects utilizing hum
an 
and animal subjects. 

 c.
 Persons shall not create, install, or knowingly distribute a virus, key logger, 

malware or other surreptitiously invasive program on any university infor
mation 
technology facility. 
IV. Information Technology Administrators and Technician Responsibil
ities 
Information technology administrators and technicians are granted signific
ant privileges and 
trust to use their authorization appropriately for the intended purpose of establis
hing and 
maintaining the operation and integrity of IT resources.   As such, system Admi
nistrators and 
technicians have the additional responsibility of protecting the confidentialit
y, integrity, and 
availability of the resources they are managing or servicing.   These addi
tional 
responsibilities include, at a minimum: 

 System administrators and technicians shall respect the privacy of others t
o the 
extent allowed by law and University policy. Any private information seen or
 
otherwise obtained in carrying out duties must be treated in the strictest confi
dence, 
unless it relates to a violation of policy, law or threatens the security of I
T resources.  
 
Information Technology Appropriate Use Policy 
 
Page 6 of 7        Georgia Southern University 

 

 System administrators and technicians shall immediately refer all viol
ations of 
policy or law to appropriate authorities.  

 
 System administrators and technicians shall cooperate at all times wit
h University 
Police, University Auditor, Environmental safety officers, the Associate 
Vice 
President for Legal Affairs, the IT Services Security Officer, and the
 Chief 
Information Officer. 
V. Sanctions:  
Violation of the University's Information Technology Appropriate Use Policy ma
y result in 
loss of information technology privileges and other disciplinary action.  Some viol
ations may 
constitute criminal offenses, and in such cases, the University will carry out 
its responsibility 
to report such violations to the appropriate authorities. Nothing in this policy is intended t
o 
limit the authority of supervisors to impose disciplinary sanctions on employees
.   
Policy violations will be classified as major or minor by the Information Te
chnology Services 
Security Administrator or the Chief Information Officer, with the approval
 of the appropriate 
vice president or their designee. 
1. First or minor violations 
 Violations of this policy that are deemed minor may be dealt with by the Chief 

Information Officer or within the appropriate department if the violator has not 

committed prior violations of the policy. Violators will be notified of the nature of t
he 
violation and advised how to reestablish compliance with the policy. 

For violators who are employees, a description of the violation and a copy of the 

incident report prepared by Information Technology Services will be sent to the
 
employee's immediate supervisor and the appropriate vice president or their des
ignee. 
For violators who are students, a description of the violation and a copy of the incident 

report will be sent to the Dean of Students, Office of Judicial Affairs. 
2. Subsequent or major violations
 Violations that are deemed major and violations involving violators who have 

previously violated the Appropriate Use Policy (including prior versions of the poli
cy) 
will be referred to the appropriate vice president for imposition of sanctions in 

accordance with Human Resource policies, which for employees could include 

termination of employment. Sanctions are imposed against student violators for 

subsequent or major violations in accordance with the Student Conduct Code. 

Violators will be notified of the nature of the violation and advised how to reestablish 

compliance with the policy. In addition, violators will receive a copy of the Appropri
ate 
Use Policy and any other policy violated, and will be required to certify in writ
ing that 
they have read and understand the policies, and agree to abide by the policies in the 

future. 

Information Technology Appropriate Use Policy 
 
Page 7 of 7        Georgia Southern University 

 
VI. Responsible Office:  
This Information Technology Appropriate Use Policy shall be administered a
nd enforced 
by the University's Chief Information Officer or his or her duly authorize
d designee.  
VII. Definitions:  
Information Technology Resource
 - Information technology resources comprise all 
computers and electronic data storage, transmission, and manipulation devices owned 

and/or controlled by any part of Georgia Southern University or connected to the 

University's communication facilities, including departmental computers and t
he 
University's information technology network facilities accessed by any
one from 
anywhere.  

 
Authorized Use
 - Authorized use of Georgia Southern University information technology 
resources is use of computer resources that is consistent with the education, res
earch, and 
service mission of the University and consistent with this Appropriate Use Poli
cy.  
 
Authorized User
 Œ An Authorized user is:  
1.
 A person who has truthfully identified themselves and to whom access credential
s 
have been granted to Georgia Southern University IT resources; or 
2.
 any person connecting to a public information service operated by Georgia 

Southern University. 
Sensitive Information
 Œ All information that should remain private as designated by 
the 
University including, but not limited to educational records, social 
security numbers, 
credit card numbers, bank-related information, and health-related informati
on.   
Technicians
 Œ Employees who have the responsibility of maintaining, configur
ing, and 
repairing desktop and laptop computing resources. 

 
System Administrators
 Œ Employees who have the responsibility of configuring and 
maintaining servers and systems used by authorized users. 
 
IX. Publication: 
1.
 This policy will appear in the student handbook and other appropriate publications 

accessible to student readership. 

 2.
 This policy will appear in employee handbook and other appropriate publications 

available to employees. 
X. Revision history:  
Adapted from Computer Use Policy July, 28, 2010


Approved by Presidents Cabinet on 11/11/2010.              

