
 
Effective: July 1, 2004
 
Updated/Revised: November 8, 2012
 
Contact:
 
Information Technology Services (ITS)
 
Contents
 
Introduction
 
1. Policy Statement
 
2. Specific Roles and Responsibilities
 
2.1 Chief Information Officer (CIO)
 
2.2 Data Steward
 
2.3 Data Custodian
 
2.4 Data User
 
2.5 Colleges, Departments, and Other Units
 
2.6 Individuals Using Personally
-
Owned Computers and Other Network Devices
 
2.
7 Third Party Vendors
 
2.8 Other Registered Entities
 
3. Risk Assessment
 
4. Data Protection Requirements
 
5. Reporting of Security Incidents
 
Resources
 
Introduction
 
Iowa State University acknowledges it
s obligation to ensure appropriate security for information and 
IT (information technology) systems in its domain of ownership and control. Furthermore, the 
university recognizes its responsibility to promote security awareness among the members of the 
Iow
a State University community.
 
Iowa State University develops, publishes, and enforces policies and standards in order to achieve 
and maintain appropriate protection of university information and information processing systems. 
This document along with rela
ted information security policies and standards (see Resources below) 
identifies key security issues for which individuals, colleges, departments, and units are responsible.
 
top
 
1. 
Policy Statement
 
Every member of the university community is responsible for protecting the security of university 
information and information systems by adhering to the objectives and requirements stated within 
published university policies. Also, individ
uals are required to comply with the additional security 
policies, procedures, and practices established by colleges, departments or other units. If multiple 
policy statements or security standards are relevant for a specific situation, the most restrictiv
e 
security standards will apply.
 
Failure to comply with established policies and practices may result in loss of computing privileges 
and/or disciplinary action.
 
All units

from the university level through the college, department, and unit level

must provi
de 
opportunities for individuals to learn about their roles in creating a secure IT environment.
 

2. Specific Roles and Responsibilities
 
2.1 Chief Information Officer (CIO)
 
The Office of the Chief Information Officer has overall responsibility for the 
security of the university's 
information technologies. Implementation of security policies is delegated throughout the university 
to various university services (noted below); to colleges, departments, and other units; and to 
individual users of campus IT 
resources.
 
2.2 Data Steward
 
The data steward is the university office represented by an executive officer charged with the 
primary responsibility and authority to ensure that Iowa State University meets external and internal 
requirements for privacy and se
curity of specific types of confidential and business data owned by 
the university in their functional areas. These data stewards, as a group, are responsible for 
recommending policies, establishing standards and guidelines for university
-
wide data adminis
tration 
activities. Data stewards may delegate the implementation of university policies, standards, and 
guidelines to data custodians. They are also responsible for advising colleges, departments, units, 
and individuals in security practices relating to t
hese areas:
 

 
Financial information and transactions (Treasurer's Office)
 

 
Health information (Director, Thielen Student Health Center)
 

 
Infrastructure, communications, and systems security (Information Technology Services)
 

 
Law enforcement information (Iowa 
State University Police)
 

 
Legal issues (Office of University Counsel)
 

 
Library circulation records (Iowa State University Library)
 

 
Personnel information and confidentiality (University Human Resources)
 

 
Physical building security (Facilities Planning and Mana
gement)
 

 
Regulated material information (Environmental Health and Safety)
 

 
Research data and sponsored programs information (Vice President for Research)
 

 
Security audits (Office of Internal Audit)
 

 
Student loan information (Office of Student Financial Aid)
 

 
St
udent record information and confidentiality (Office of the Registrar)
 
2.3 Data Custodian
 
The data custodian is the individual or entity (including outsourced services) in possession or control 
of data and is responsible for safeguarding the data according
 
to the policies and procedures 
established by the associated data steward. The appropriate level of protection is based on the
 
Data 
Classification policy
 
and the
 
Minimum Security Standards for Protected Data
 
(see Resources 
below)
.
 
top
 
2.4 Data User
 
The data user, synonymous with user, is the individual, automated application or process that is 
authorized by the data steward to create, enter, edit, and access data, in accordance with
 
the data 
steward's policies and procedures. Users have a responsibility to:
 

 
maintain the security of passwords, personal identification numbers (PINs), authentication tokens 
and certificates; and will be held accountable for any activities linked to their
 
accounts
 

 
manage all forms of authentication and security controls to information processing systems based on 
the Minimum Security Standards for Protected Data
 

 
use the data only for the purpose specified by the data steward
 


 
comply with controls established
 
by the data steward
 

 
prevent disclosure of confidential or sensitive data
 

 
report suspected security incidents that may have breached the confidentiality of data
 
2.5 Colleges, Departments, and Other Units
 
Colleges, departments, and other units are responsib
le for securing any information they create, 
manage, or store, and for any information they acquire or access from other university systems (e.g., 
student educational records, personnel records, business information). This responsibility includes 
completin
g periodic risk assessments, developing and implementing appropriate security practices, 
and complying with all aspects of this policy.
 
2.6 Individuals Using Personally
-
Owned Computers and Other Network Devices
 
Students, faculty, and staff who use personal
ly
-
owned systems to access university resources are 
responsible for the security of their personally
-
owned computers or other network devices and are 
subject to the following:
 

 
The provisions of the IT Security policy and the standards, procedures, and guid
elines established 
by IT Services for university computing and network facilities.
 

 
All other laws, regulations, or policies directed at the individual user.
 
2.7 Third Party Vendors
 
Third party vendors providing hosted services and vendors providing support
, whether on campus or 
from a remote location, are subject to Iowa State University security policies and will be required to 
acknowledge this in the contractual agreements. The vendors are subject to the same auditing and 
risk assessment requirements as c
olleges, departments, and other units. All contracts, audits and 
risk assessments involving third party vendors will be reviewed and approved by the university data 
steward based on their area of responsibility.
 
top
 
2.8 Other Registered Entities
 
Any entity that is a registered user and connected to the university network is responsible for the 
security of its computers and network devices and is subject to the following:
 

 
The 
provisions of the IT Security policy and the standards, procedures, and guidelines established 
by IT Services for university computing and network facilities.
 

 
All other laws, regulations, or policies directed at the organization and its individual users.
 
3. Risk Assessment
 
Risk assessment is a systematic process used in determining potential for and impact of a negative 
event by evaluating the nature of the information and information systems.
 
All information systems must meet the
 
Minimum Security Standard
s for Protected 
Information
 
based on the
 
Data Classification policy
 
(see Resources below)
. Some selected 
systems will be designated for conducting a risk assessment at a prescribed frequency in the 
Schedule of Risk Assessments for Information Security (see
 
Resources below). These selected 
systems will have the documented findings and any future actions placed on file for audit and 
accountability purposes.
 

4. Data Protection Requirements
 
Data is a valuable asset of the university, and some data must be prote
cted with a higher level of 
attention and caution. The level of protection is based on the method defined by the
 
Data 
Classification policy
 
along with the
 
Minimum Security Standards for Protected Data
 
(see 
Resources below)
.
 
5. Reporting of Security Inciden
ts
 
A critical component of security is to address security breaches promptly and with the appropriate 
level of action. All individuals are responsible for reporting incidents in which they suspect data, 
computer or network security may have been compromise
d. The IT Security Incident Reporting 
policy (see Resources below) outlines the responsibilities of colleges, departments, units, and 
individuals in reporting as well as defining procedures for handling security incidents.
 
top
 
 

