MARSHALL UNIVERSITY BOARD OF GOVERNORS
 Policy No. IT-1
 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ACCEPTABLE USE POLICY
 1 General Information:
 1.1 Scope:  This Information Technology Resources Acceptable Use Policy (AUP) sets forth 
the general rights and 
responsibilities common to all uses
 of information technology. It 
applies to any user of the University's info
rmation technology resour
ces, whether initiated 
from a computer located on or
 off-campus. This includes an
y computer and information 
system or resource, including means of acce
ss, networks, and the data residing thereon. 
This policy applies to the use 
of all University informati
on technology resources whether 
centrally administered or locally administere
d. This policy applies to
 all members of the 
University community, including guests who have
 been given accounts on the University™s 
information technology systems for specific pu
rposes. Administrators
 of individual or dedicated University resources may enact ad
ditional policies specific to those resources 
provided they do not conflict w
ith the provisions of this and other official policies and 
laws. Users are subject to both the provisions of
 this policy and any policies specific to the 
individual systems they use. 
1.2 Authority: W. Va. Code §18B-1-6 
1.3 Passage Date:   
December 13, 2012 
1.4 Effective Date:   
Upon passage 
1.5 Controlling over: 
Marshall University and all units that are directly associated with the 
institution. 1.6 History:
 1.6.1 Statutory References: 
W. Va. Code §61-3C-3 
1.6.2 MUBOG IT-1 policy replaces the original 
Computer Use and Abuse Policy and is 
authorized by the Information Technology C
ouncil effective April 
8, 2005.  This is an 
update to the version passed 
by the Marshall University 
Board of Governors on March 8, 
2006. 2 Policy:
 2.1 Introduction
 Marshall University is an academic community
 dedicated to creating and maintaining an 
environment for learning that promotes re
spect for and apprecia
tion of scholarship, 
freedom, and human diversity. In keeping with this commitment, Marshall University 

makes certain University computing resources
 are available to faculty, staff, and 
students. These resources incl
ude educational, research, 
and communication facilities, 
disk storage, and selected so
ftware. Access to and usage of
 these facilities is a public 

trust; and certain expectations, responsibiliti
es and requirements ar
e inherent to this 
trust. Access to these finite resources is a pr
ivilege and is provided with an expectation 
of responsible and acceptable use. In additi
on to the principles and guidelines provided 
in this policy, institu
tional policies along with certain fede
ral, state and local regulations 
apply to the use of the Informa
tion Technology Environment (ITE). 
2.2 General Principles and Guidelines
 The basic premise of this policy is that re
sponsible and acceptable 
use of the Marshall 
University ITE does not extend to whatever 
an individual is capable of doing. Instead, 
certain principles provide a guide to users re
garding responsible and 
acceptable behaviors 
and users are responsible 
for knowing and understanding th
em. These principles and 
guidelines include, but are not limited to: 
2.2.1 The Marshall University ITE was funded
 and developed for th
e sole purpose of 
promoting and supporting the 
mission of the University. 
2.2.2 Authorized users of the Ma
rshall University ITE, or 
University sponsored remote 
resources, are those individua
ls who have been granted a 
username and password. The 
username and password combina
tion is your identity and li
cense to access and use the 
components of the Marshall Un
iversity ITE for which you are specifically authorized. 
 2.2.3 Authorized users will abide 
by institutional policies along wi
th applicable local, state 
and federal regulations. 
2.2.4 The resources of the Marshall University 
ITE are finite and shared.  Appropriate and 
responsible use of these res
ources must be cons
istent with the common good. The ITE 
may NOT be used for commerc
ial or profit-making purposes. 
2.2.5 The University reserves the right to lim
it access to the Marshall University ITE when 
investigating cases of suspected abuse 
or when violations
 have occurred. 
2.2.6 The University does not monitor 
or generally restrict the cont
ent of material stored on or 
transferred through the compone
nts of the ITE. Use of the 
ITE is a privilege and not a 
public forum, therefore the University reserves 
the right to restrict or deny usage of the 
ITE when such usage does not promote or
 support the mission of the University. 
2.2.7 Users must adhere to the et
hical standards governing copy
right, software licensing, and 
intellectual property. 
2.2.8 Personal web pages may NOT contain th
e official Marshall University logo. 
2.2.9 "Mass Mailings" are defined as excessive, 
unauthorized, and frivol
ous mailings of two 
hundred or more identical or nearly identical 
pieces of electronic co
mmunication sent by 
user or users to other email 
or voice recipients 
and are not allowed w
ithout approval. The details for appr
oval are found in 
 IT-3
. 2.2.10   Unauthorized scanning of ports, 
computers and networ
ks is prohibited. 2.2.11   Unauthorized attempts to circumvent 
data protection schemes 
or uncover security 
vulnerabilities are prohibited. 
2.2.12   Connecting unauthorized equipment to the 
campus network or com
puters is prohibited. 

University authorized busine
ss and other activities directly
 related to the academic 
mission of the University are excluded; how
ever, network communication devices must 
have prior approval from the 
Division of Information Technology before they can be 
connected to the campus network. Unauthoriz
ed network communication devices or any 
networked device that may negatively impact 
management, reliability 
or integrity of the 
campus network or other University resource
 may be disconnected from the network. 
2.2.13  Attempting to alter any University 
computing or networ
k components without 
authorization or beyond one's le
vel of authorization, including 
but not limited to bridges, 
routers, hubs, wiring, and 
connections is prohibited. 2.2.14   Utilizing network or system identificatio
n numbers or names that
 are not assigned for 
one's specific use on the design
ated system is prohibited. 
2.2.15   Using campus resources to gain unauthori
zed access to any com
puter system and/or 
using someone else's computer with
out their permission is prohibited. 
2.2.16   Providing services or accounts on Universi
ty computers or via University networks to 
other users from a personal co
mputer, unless required to m
eet the normal activities of 
students working as individuals or in co
llaborative groups to fulfill current course 
requirements, is prohibited. Conducting Un
iversity-authorized business and other 
activities directly related to the academic mi
ssion of the University 
is allowed; however, 
any computers running services that may nega
tively impact management, reliability or 
integrity of the campus network or other Univ
ersity resource may be disconnected from 
the network. 2.2.17   Registering a Marshall Univ
ersity IP address with any ot
her domain name is prohibited. 
2.2.18   Commercial use of
 the University's information te
chnology resources is strictly 
prohibited for unauthorized co
mmercial activities; personal gain; and private, or 
otherwise unrelated to the University, busine
ss or fundraising. This includes soliciting, 
promoting, selling, marketing or advertising products or services, or reselling University 

resources. 
2.3 Enforcement
 Violation of these guidelines constitutes un
acceptable use of inform
ation resources, and 
may violate other University policies and/or
 state and federal law. Suspected or known 
violations should be reported to the Office of the Senior Vice President for Information 

Technology/CIO. The appropriate 
University authorities and/or
 law enforcement agencies 
will process violations. Violations may re
sult in revocation of computing resource 
privileges, academic dishonesty or Honor C
ouncil proceedings, faculty, staff or student 
disciplinary action, 
or legal action. 
The maintenance, operation, and security of
 computing resources 
require responsible 
University personnel to
 monitor and access the system. 
To the extent possible in the 
electronic environment and in a public setting, a user's privacy will be preserved. 

Nevertheless, that privacy is subject to the West Virginia Access to Public Records Act, 

other applicable state and fe
deral laws, and the needs of the University to meet its 
administrative, business,
 and legal obligations. 
2.4 Common Forms of Violations
 Although most users strive for 
acceptable and responsible use of the ITE, inexperienced 
users may unwittingly engage in behaviors that violate the principles and guidelines of 

responsible and acceptable use.
 To that end, this section outlines some of the more 
common forms of violations that occur. Thes
e examples should not be
 interpreted as an 
exhaustive list of violations. 
2.4.1 Furnishing false or misleading information or
 identification in or
der to access another 
user's account 
2.4.2 Using another person's username/passwor
d or letting someone else use your 
username/password 
2.4.3 Investigating, reading or attempting to ac
cess another user's f
iles without permission 
2.4.4 Attempts to access or mani
pulate certain components of
 the information technology 
environment without authorization 
2.4.5 Alteration of software, data, or 
other files without
 authorization 
2.4.6 Disruption or destruction 
of equipment 
or resources 2.4.7 Using subterfuge to avoid being charge
d for computer resour
ces or deliberate, 
unauthorized use of another 
user's account to avoid being billed for services 
2.4.8 Copying or attempting to copy data
 or software without authorization 
2.4.9 Sending mail or a program wh
ich will replicate it
self or do damage 
to another user's 
account 2.4.10   Interfering with legitimate work of another user 
2.4.11   Sending abusive, harassing, or obscene messages 
 
2.4.12   Viewing or listening to objectionable, obs
cene, pornographic, or 
harassing material in 
public areas 
2.4.13   Excessive recreational use of resources 
2.4.14   Sending chain letters or unauthorized ma
ss mailings or transmitting a crippling number 

of files across a network 
2.4.15   Sending hoax messages or forged messag
es, including message
s sent under someone 
else's username 
2.4.16   Any activity or action that violates the Un
iversity's Student Code 
of Conduct or Policies, 
faculty/staff policies and regulations, or federal, state, or local laws 

