   University Policy 
08-005 Acceptable Use of Computing Resources
 Page 
1 of 
4  Responsible Executive:
 VP for 
Information Services
 Responsible Office:
  Office of 
Information Services
 Effective:
  July 19, 2016
 Last Revised:
  July 19, 2016
 1. Policy S
tatement
 1.1.
 Oregon State University (
ﬁuniversity
ﬂ) is committed to a respectful, safe, and ethical 
environment. This policy defines the expectations for user™s behavior and use of
 the 
university™s computing environment and resources.
 2. Reason for Policy
  2.1.
 To assure the appropriate use of the university™s computing infrastructure and 
resources.  This policy establishes responsibilities and limitations associated with the 

use of the uni
versity computing environment.
 3. Scope & Audience
 3.1.
 This policy applies to all academic, research, and administrative departments and 

offices at all Oregon State University locations; all university faculty, staff, students, 

visitors, contractors and 
affiliates; and all resources, systems, infrastructure, devices, 
facilities and applications in the university™s computing portfolio, whether located on 

university property or accessed remotely.
 4. Definitions
 4.1.
 Computing Resources:
  The network and 
communications infrastructure, facilities, 
devices, applications, and systems owned and/or provided by the university.
 4.2.
 Information Technology Security Governance Council: 
 A committee charged with 
reviewing and recommending IT security policy.  The Council
 is appointed by the Vice 
Provost for Information Services. 
   
University Policy 
08-005
    Acceptable Use of Computing Resources
 Page 
2 of 
4  5. Responsibilities & Procedures
  5.1.
 Acceptable use of university computing resources
 5.1.1.
 Computing resources are the property of the university and shall be used for 
legitimate university instructional, research, administrative, public service, and 
approved contract purposes. 
 5.1.2.
 Minimal personal use of computing resources may be permitted if it 
does not 
interfere with the university's or the employee's ability to carry out university 

business, and does not violate the terms of this policy.  
 5.1.3.
 The use of university computing resources is subject to the generally accepted 

tenets of legal and ethical
 behavior within the university community. The standards 
of behavior expected of community members extend to the virtual environment as 

well.
 5.1.4.
 All users of university computing resources must: 
 a. Comply with all federal, state and other applicable laws; all a
pplicable university 
rules and policies; and all applicable contracts and licenses. Users are responsible 

for ascertaining, understanding, and complying with the laws, rules, policies, 

contracts, and licenses applicable to their particular uses.
 b. Use only t
hose computing resources they are authorized to use and use them only 
in the manner and to the extent authorized.
 c. Keep account credentials, including passwords, confidential. Accounts and 
credentials may not, under any circumstances, be shared with or used
 by persons 
other than the individual(s) to whom they have been assigned by the university.
 d. Refrain from unauthorized viewing or use of another person's computer files, 

programs, accounts, or data.
 e. Refrain from unauthorized attempts to circumvent the secur
ity mechanisms of any 
university system.
 f. Refrain from attempts to degrade system performance or capability, or attempts to 

damage systems, software or intellectual property of others.
 g. Refrain from using university computing resources for commercial purpose
s unrelated to the university, except as specifically authorized.
 h. When using university computing resources to access non
-university resources, 
observe the acceptable use policies of those non
-university organizations.
 
University Policy 
08-005
    Acceptable Use of Computing Resources
 Page 
3 of 
4  i. Abide by federal copyright laws when using university computing resources for the 
use of or the copying of copyrighted material. 
 j. Abide by their supervisor's direction regarding permitted personal use of university 

computing resources, if any.
 5.2.
 Privacy
 5.2.1.
 It i
s the practice of the university not to monitor individual usage of computing 
resources unless there is a legitimate business reason to do so.   However, 

employees do not have an expectation of privacy in university computing 
resources. 
 5.2.2.
 The university res
erves the right to monitor and record the usage of university 
computing resources as necessary to evaluate and maintain system efficiency and 
security.  The university may further monitor and record the usage of individuals, 
including the disclosure of ind
ividual files when:
 a. It has reason to believe that activities are taking place  contrary to this policy, or 
state or federal law;
 b. Necessary to respond to a court order, subpoena, to assist law enforcement, or in 
response to a request from a federal or state
 oversight agency;
 c. Necessary to respond to a request for discovery in the course of litigation; or,
 d. A legitimate business reason exists.
 5.2.3.
 Monitoring will be undertaken only with authorization from the appropriate 

university personnel. 
 5.2.4.
 The university may us
e information gained in this manner in disciplinary or criminal 
proceedings. 
 5.3.
 Enforcement
 5.3.1.
 Violations of this policy may result in:
 a. Removal of content; 
 b. Denial of access to university computing resources;
 c. Disciplinary actions and/or criminal and civil 
penalties;
 or,
 d. Referral to appropriate law enforcement agencies. 
 
University Policy 
08-005
    Acceptable Use of Computing Resources
 Page 
4 of 
4  5.3.2.
 The university may immediately suspend or block access to an account when it 
appears necessary to do so in order to protect the integrity, security, or 

functionality of university or other 
computing resources, or to protect the 

university from liability.
 5.4.
 Exceptions
 5.4.1.
 Exceptions to this policy must be approved by the Vice Provost for Information 

Services.
 6. Forms & Tools  
 6.1.
 None.
 7. Frequently Asked Questions 
 7.1.
 None.
 8. Related Information
 8.1.
 None.
 9. History
 9.1.
 Last review date:  
July 2016
. 9.2.
 Next scheduled review date: 
 July 2019
. 10. Website 
 10.1.
 http://leadership.oregonstate.edu/sites/leadershi
p.oregonstate.edu/files
/08
-005_acceptable_use_of_computing_resources.pdf
 11. Contacts 
 Department
 Phone Number
 Website
 Office of Information 
Security
 541-737-3474
 http://is.oregonstate.edu/ois
   
