POLICY
 
 
 
 

USF 
S
ystem
 
USF
 
USFSP
 
USFSM
 
 
 
 
N
umber
:
 
 
 
0
-
50
1
 
Title
:
 
Information Technology Resources
 

 
Use and 
Protection
 
Responsible Office: 
 
Information Technology
 
D
ate of Origin
:
  
5
-
15
-
9
8
 
 
Date L
ast Amended
:
  
9
-
11
-
13
 
(technical)
 
 
Date L
ast 
Reviewed
:
  
9
-
11
-
13
 
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
 
 
I.
 
INTRODUCTION
 
( Purpose and Intent)
 
Advances in technology have enabled the implementation of a substantial number of 
computer
-
based application systems by the University of South Florida System (USF 
System) campuses, colleges, departments and entities.  In some cases, these applications hav
e 
become critical to the operation of the organization and the USF System.  It is essential, 
therefore, that adequate measures be used to protect the integrity and reliability of those 
computing systems and the USF System
 
data they process.
 
The purpose of 
this policy is to help USF System
 
units maintain the confidentiality, integrity, 
and availability of their information technology resources by establishing a basic set of 
minimum standards for management, use, and protection.
 
 
II.
 
DEFINITIONS 
 
Information tech
nology (IT) resources shall be interpreted to include all USF System
 
computing and telecommunications facilities, equipment, hardware, software, data, systems, 
networks and services which are used for the support of teaching, research and 
administrative ac
tivities of the USF System.
 
A USF System Unit consists of any College, Department, Research Center, Institute, Direct 
Support Organization, or other administrative subdivisions that are connected to the 
University of South Florida System network.
 
 
III.
 
SCOPE
 
This policy applies to all IT resources, persons and entities connected to the USF System 
network and include the hardware, software, and USF System
 
data used in these 
environments, except for specific entities who operate under additional federal regulati
ons 
that would not normally be applicable to an educational environment.  These areas may 
include clinical healthcare or clinical research, where federal regulation mandates an even 

more stringent and different security structure.  Even in these cases, rea
sonable efforts 
should be made to follow the spirit of USF System
 
policy.
 
 
IV.
 
STATEMENT OF POLICY 
 

 
All USF System
 
information security policies, standards, guidelines and practices shall be 
coordinated through the Office of Information Security 
and shall be consistent with a USF 
System
-
wide approach in developing, implementing and managing data, system, and network 
security.
 

 
ability to conduct its business extends beyond basic 
procedures for handling, storing an
d disposing of information.  Each USF System
 
unit must 
ensure a level of protection not only appropriate for computers and networks  in its own 
environment but also with regard to the level of protection used for the larger campus 
networks of which they ar
e a part. 
 
The University of South Florida is a System of higher education composed of multiple 
campuses and separately accredited institutions located in Tampa, St. Petersburg, Sarasota
-
Manatee. Regional campuses and separately accredited institutions may
 
have unique 
characteristics.  Students, faculty, and staff must check with their individual campuses and 
apply System
-
wide policies in conjunction and consistent with the specific characteristics and 
guidelines applicable to those campuses.  Notwithstandi
ng, this policy is intended to set 
minimum guidelines for the entire USF System.  Regional campuses, separately accredited 
institutions and administrative offices may not adopt less restrictive standards than the ones 
outlined in this policy. The CTO or eq
uivalent head of IT department in each campus shall 
be responsible for initiating the implementation of the provisions of this policy in his or her 
respective area.
 
 
A.  Management and Access Controls 
 
Each IT resource shall have a designee who is responsible for its security and 
management.  The designee will be responsible for following and implementing 
standards and guidelines for system management as established and maintained by the 
Information Secu
rity Workgroup (ISW), as defined in 
USF System
 
Policy 0
-
508
, and 
published on the USF System Security Website, 
http://www.usf.edu/it/about
-
us/policies
-
and
-
standards.aspx
.
 
According to 
USF System Policy 0
-
515
, Protection of Electronic Personal 
Information, 
access to Personal Identifiable Information (PII) shall be granted only when required by 
official USF System
 
business. When granted, access shall be closely monitored by the 
data owners, data custodians and the Office of Information Security, 
following the 
standards established by 
USF Policy 0
-
515
 
and supplemental standards and guidelines 

posted on the USF System Security website. Access reviews sho
uld be done at least 
annually to verify that owners/supervisors validate the user level of access and the 
changes effected. 
 
Each authorized user of a system shall have a unique login ID.  Any ID which is used to 
access a system, and which does not provide
 
a unique user identification, shall have 
access only to specific, restricted system resources. Access to services and/or resources 
will be suspended, and the appropriate account deleted when there is no longer a 
business or academic need for access. Emplo
yees are required to remove any personal 
data from USF computer systems prior to their last day at USF. The deprovisioning of 
the account will be performed in a manner proportionate to the level of risk posed by 
such access, including immediate suspension 
of access and privileges and deletion of the 
account if necessary. 
 
It is the responsibility of each user to understand the retention requirements put upon 
the data they store on IT systems by State and Federal Law. In case of employee 
termination, that re


duplicate files stored in network drives on to another network share and make these files 
available to t
he new departmental data owner. By default, IT will keep email, calendar, 
and network share files for a period of one (1) year, at the end of which the files will be 
purged from the system.
 
Access control procedures shall be used to authenticate all users 
who access each system.  
Such controls shall include, at a minimum, a login ID and a response mechanism (such 
as a password) for each user.  
All user accounts
 
shall be 
required 
to 
change 
passwords
 
periodically.  The frequency should be determined by the enforced length and 
complexity of the
 
password 
combined 
with 
the sensitivity of the data protected, in 
accordance with industry 
standards and guidelines 
published in 
the 
security website.
 
Login IDs 
with supervisor or root privileges shall be highly secured.  Such IDs shall be 
reserved for system management tasks and shall not be used as the IDs for routine 
system access.
 
Access rights and privileges for all authorized users shall be maintained and ma
naged so 
as to secure access to data in a manner appropriate to the needs of the user and the value 
of the data.  Confidential data shall be protected against unauthorized access regardless 
of form, computing environment or location.
 
B.  Software Managemen
t
 
Appropriate procedures shall be established and documented for the management of 
computer and system software.  These procedures shall address the processes by which 
such software is acquired, installed, tested, documented, changed, and maintained.
 
Where
 
justifiable, and when it benefits the University, procedures shall be established 

and maintained to allow for the installation of employee legally
-
owned software.  
Employee
-
owned software must be removed from USF System
 
equipment when the 
equipment is no 
longer being used by that employee, or upon that employee's 
termination of employment with the unit or the USF System.  
 
At the time of termination of employment from a unit or from the USF System, the 
employee being terminated shall certify as part of the
 
unit's termination processing that 
all USF System
 
software has been removed from the employee's personally
-
owned home 
equipment and that all original software media or copies have been returned to the USF 
System.
 
Procedures shall be established for the ma
nagement of proprietary software purchased 
for an employee's use in a telecommuting arrangement.
 
USF licensed software shall be 
removed from any non
-
 
USF System
 
equipment at the conclusion of the telecommuting 
arrangement or at the termination of employmen
t with a unit or with the USF System.
 
C.  Data Backup
 
System Administrators shall carry out the procedures for backup of systems data and 
software.  Effective backup procedures shall be maintained for the data and software 
residing on systems according to 
the ISW standards.  Procedures shall also address 
periodic testing to ensure the ability to 
 
successfully restore data from these backups.  Backup systems shall not be used as 
archiving for record retention purposes.  The goal of these systems is to protec
t USF 
System
 
data, allowing recovery in the case of a disaster.
 
Backups shall be stored in a secured area that would not be subject to the same 
disruption of services as the location where the system is located.  Backups of data 
considered mission
-
critical
 
to the operation of the unit shall also be maintained in an 
alternate location.  USF System units using backup services must ensure that appropriate 
measures are taken to preserve the confidentiality of the data as specified by industry 
standards and the 
standards published on the Security Website, 
http://www.usf.edu/it/about
-
us/policies
-
and
-
standards.aspx
.
 
Users are not authorized to back up USF Institutional Data, as defined in th
e 
Data 
Management policy 0
-
507
, to cloud services other than the ones specifically approved by 
the ITMC. Data stored on not
-
approved cloud services are outside
 
the control of 
Information Technology and may provide the means for the leakage of restricted USF 
Institutional Data. 
Nevertheless, all restricted information stored on an approved cloud 
service must be encrypted prior to storage.
 
Requests for evaluation 
of new cloud storage 
providers may be submitted to the Office of Information Security, 
security@usf.edu
.
 
D
.
  
Business Resumption Planning  
 
Recovery plans shall be developed and maintained for the restoration and continuation 
of critical services in the event of a significant disruption of normal computer and system 

operations.  These shall include plans for interim manual processing, as well 
as plans for 
resuming operations in an alternate location should that be necessary to maintain the 
mission
-
critical functions of the unit.  These plans shall address areas such as a 
replacement of hardware and software, restoration of data, relocation of p
ersonnel and 
so on, as appropriate to the needs of the unit.
 
E.  Awareness and Training
 
A robust and enterprise wide awareness and training program is paramount to 
understanding IT security responsibilities, organizational policies, and how to use and 
prot
ect the entrusted IT resources in a proper manner.  
The program shall ensure that all 
individuals are appropriately trained in how to fulfill their security responsibilities.  Such 
training shall provide employees with the rules of the system and apprise t
hem of 
available assistance, security products, and techniques. Behavior consistent with the rules 
of the system and periodic retraining shall be required for continued access to the 
University systems.
 
F.  Physical Security 
 
Procedures shall be developed 
and maintained for protecting computer equipment and 
components from theft and physical damage.  Equipment shall be located only in areas 
that have sufficient physical access controls and are already properly protected; critical 
servers shall be in a secur
e area designated by IT as a Data Center, with access permitted 
only by authorized persons. Due to the duties they perform it may be necessary to house 
servers related to network operations outside the Data Center. The Infrastructure group 
will take steps 
to protect these servers from physical threats as much as possible.  
Protective measures shall include power surge protection, fire or smoke detection, alarm 
systems, air conditioning, humidity control, and other devices as appropriate.
 
G
.
  
Network Connect
ion 
 
USF System
 
network is a privilege and all persons and USF System  Units connecting to 
it must comply with USF System
 
standards, published on the Security Website 
http://www.usf
.edu/it/about
-
us/policies
-
and
-
standards.aspx
, and USF System
 
Policies 
and Regulations.  Failure to comply can result in disconnection from the network or 
removal of services at the direction of the Information Security Manager (ISM) or 
Information Security
 
Officer (ISO), as outlined in 
USF System Policy 0
-
508
.
 
H.
  
Media Disposal 
 
Procedures shall be established for the management of data residing on storage medi
a 
that are transferred, surplused, or disposed of otherwise.  If equipment is transferred to 
another USF System
 
unit, then all USF System
 
data shall be removed from the storage 
media prior to the transfer.  Special care shall be taken to remove all 
confidential data 
from storage media that are being surplused, donated, or disposed of otherwise.  Further 
guidance can be found in the USF System Security Website.
 

I
.
  
Risk Assessment 
 
Risk assessments shall be conducted on a basis consistent with system 
criticality.  A risk 
assessment will be performed by local systems administrators on a not less than yearly 
basis.  The ISW will be responsible for conducting a continuous, USF System
 
-
wide risk 
assessment program as outlined in 
Policy 0
-
508
.
 
 
V.  
ENFORCEMENT OF POLICY 
 
All USF System
 
students, staff, and faculty shall comply with this policy, including all future 
information security policies and standards.
 


evaluation of security threats found in the USF System and are authorized to take a
ppropriate 
action, including removal of the network access for that threat system.  Members of the IRT, as 
outlined on 
USF System Policy 0
-
508
, shall use Offic
e of Information Security (OIS) approved 
guidelines to help determine the threat level and the appropriate action.
 
Individual user violations of any policy or standard published by the OIS may be subject to 
disciplinary or corrective actions based upon the
 
policies, rules, regulations and procedures of 
the University of South Florida System.  These actions may include sanctions including, but not 
limited to, revocation of the employee or student privileges up to and including termination of 
employment or ex
pulsion.  Certain violations, misuse, or disclosures of confidential information 
may include civil and/or criminal penalties.
 
 
 
*Current Responsible Office: 
Information Technology
 
*Refer to the appropriate Responsible Office website for a current name of 
the Vice 
Presiden
t or other Responsible Officer.
 

