Acceptable Use of Information Technology Resources and Systems 
6104
 I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to establish parameters for the use of Longwood information technology (IT) resources and systems.
II. DEFINITIONIT Resources and Systems
: IT resources and systems include all computers, workstations, peripherals, networks, communications
devices, switches, software programs and systems, as well as all related devices, hardware and software owned by Longwood
University, covered under contract by the Commonwealth of Virginia or that are the responsibility of Longwood University through
agreements with Longwood departments or employees.
III. POLICY
This policy covers all activities involving these IT resources and systems and applies to all individuals using these IT resources and
systems. This policy does not cover activities solely involving personal property, but does cover activities which involve the use of
personal property connected to or communicating with Longwood University IT resources and systems.
A. Intent
 of IT Resources and Systems
: IT resources and systems are provided at Longwood and shall be used solely to support
the mission of the University and its related academic, administrative and service activities. Activities involving Longwood's IT
resources and systems must be in accord with the Longwood University 
Honor Code
(http://www.longwood.edu/studentconduct/honor-code/)
, the Student Handbook, the Faculty Policies and Procedures Manual
and the Administrative Policies and Procedures Manual
 (http://www.longwood.edu/policies/index.html)
, as well as, relevant
local, state, federal and international laws and regulations.
B. Privileged Systems
: Use of Longwood IT resources and systems is a privilege granted to individuals by the University and is
restricted to the specific authorities granted. Access to the use of discrete IT resources and systems shall be explicitly granted
by the owner of the IT resource or system or his or her designee.
C. Acceptable Use
: For use to be acceptable, it must demonstrate respect for:
1. The intent of the individual authorities granted the user;
2. The usage privileges of other authorized users;
3. The rights of others to privacy;
4. Intellectual property rights (e.g., as reflected in licenses and copyrights);
5. Ownership, confidentiality, integrity and availability of systems and data;
6. System mechanisms designed to limit, monitor and/or record use or access (Longwood University IT resources and
systems activity are routinely monitored and recorded by technical support staff.);
7. 
Current network topology and configuration; and
8. Individuals' rights to be free of intimidation, harassment and unwarranted annoyance.
D. 
Responsibility to Investigate Possible Misuse
:1. The University reserves the right to monitor, access and disclose all data created, sent, received, processed or stored
on any University IT resource or system with or without cause.
2. When there is reasonable suspicion of misuse the University has the responsibility to investigate. Such investigations
will only be undertaken by the CIO or his or her designee with the permission of the President or his or her designee.
3. The CIO or his or her designee has the right to temporarily suspend or modify access privileges.
E. Internal Audit Reviews
: In the course of its work, Internal Audit has full and complete direct access to all University books and
records (manual and electronic) relevant to the subject of review. All documents and information given to Internal Audit
during their work will be handled in the same prudent manner that the University expects of the employees normally
accountable for them.
IV.  ENFORCEMENT
The University regards any violation of this policy as a serious offense. Violators of this policy are subject to appropriate
disciplinary action such as prescribed in the Longwood University 
Honor Code
 (http://www.longwood.edu/studentconduct/honor-
code/)
, the Student Handbook, the Faculty Policies and Procedures Manual and the 
Administrative Policies and Procedures Manual
Policies & Procedures

(http://www.longwood.edu/policies/index.html)
, in addition to possible cancellation of IT resources and systems access privileges.
Users of IT systems and resources at Longwood are subject to all applicable local, state and federal statutes. This policy does not
preclude prosecution of criminal and civil cases under relevant local, state, federal and international laws and regulations.
Revised and approved by the Board of Visitors, September 7, 2002.
Revised and approved by the Board of Visitors, September 10, 2005.
Revised and approved by the Board of Visitors, September 14, 2006.
Revised and approved by the Board of Visitors, September 12, 2008.
 Visit
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES
on www.longwood.edu
(http://www.longwood.edu/technology/ )

