Skip to Main Content
 (#main-content)
Policy Manual
Policy Title: Network Standards
Boise State University Policy #8010
Effective Date: November 1997
Revised: March 2015
Purpose:
This policy protects the data and network-related resources of the University. It helps
ensure a secure and reliable network available twenty-four hours a day, seven days a
week in which end-users have conÞdence. It reduces the risk of data loss or loss of
service by providing consistent network access, maintenance, and methodologies.
Additional Authority:
Communications Act of 1934 (amended)
The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974
The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986
The Computer Virus Eradication Act of 1989
Idaho Code Title 18, Chapter 22 (The Idaho Computer Crimes Statute)
The Electronic Communications Privacy Act
University Policy #2020 (The Student Code of Conduct)
University Policy #8000 (Information Technology Use)
University Policy #8020 (Server Administration)
University Policy #12020 (Exclusion from Campus)
Scope:
Applies to all members of the Boise State University community, and users of the
University Data Backbone.
Responsible Parties:
Vice-President for Finance and Administration, 426-1200
Chief Information OfÞcer (CIO), OfÞce of Information Technology (OIT), 426-5774
DeÞnitions:
Data Backbone, Backbone Ð Includes: all cabling, copper and Þber, as well as point-to-
point wireless, connected buildings, and equipment within buildings, ending at the data
face plate into which a user plugs a patch cable from his/her device, etc. The University
Backbone also includes all switches, wireless access points, and routers providing
connectivity. In addition, the Backbone includes all Wide Area Network (WAN)
equipment, Þrewalls, and network scanners.
Network Engineer Ð The senior certiÞed technical employee in OIT that is responsible
for the University data network. This position is either an employee title or a position
that is identiÞed by the CIO, OIT.
Telecommunications Rooms Ð Equipment rooms that house network cabling, cross-
connect panels, and network electronics. Each building has one entrance facility serving
as a point where inter-building entrance cables (Þber) terminate called an entrance
facility or a building distribution frame room, and one or more satellite
Telecommunication Rooms to re-distribute connections called intermediate distribution
frame rooms.

Policy
I. Policy Statement
Boise State University supports centralized network services to offer the most
advanced technology available while ensuring that stable and reliable services
are maintained for the beneÞt of the University community.
II. OIT Responsibilities
A. Backbone
OIT is solely responsible for the entire Boise State University Data
Backbone. SpeciÞcally, OIT is responsible to:
1. Administer all data lines (Þber and copper) installed at
Boise State University, including those not on the main
campus.
2. Install or contract to install data lines (Þber and copper).
3. Provide, fund, and support the UniversityÕs basic
communications/Data Backbone. Manage the use of all data
lines and project future needs.
4. Install and/or manage switches, and wireless access
points on the Data Backbone.
5. Operate routers on the Data Backbone, and install or
conÞgure any device to route on the Backbone.
6. Maintain all Data Backbone networking equipment
purchased with University funds and installed in the
Backbone. OIT may grant exceptions to a) assist campus
units who have purchased equipment outside of OIT
funding, or b) grant on-going maintenance access to faculty
or staff with specialized equipment.
7. Maintain all WAN data connections to the University.
8. Extend the Data Backbone. All requests to extend the
Data Backbone (e.g., IP tunneling, WAN connections, WAN
upgrades, etc.) must be forwarded to the University Network
Engineer.
B. Telecommunications Rooms
1. OIT exclusively manages University Telecommunications
Rooms.
2. Access to Telecommunications Rooms for non OIT staff
must be coordinated with OIT Telephone/Network Services.
C. Separate Networks
1. OIT must set up and maintain any college or departmentÕs
separate networks.
2. OIT is responsible for the protection of the University
network, but initial and ongoing costs of a separate network
will be the responsibility of the requesting academic or
auxiliary unit.
D. Services
1. IP Addresses
The Class B IP address block 132.178.0.0/16 and BSU-IPV6
block 2620:109:5000::/44 are the property of Boise State
University. The Network Engineer will manage the
addresses (numbers) and their use. The improper use of
University IP numbers is a violation this policy.
2. Dynamic Host ConÞguration Protocol (DHCP)
a) DHCP is a protocol that provides a means to

dynamically allocate IP addresses.
b) OIT is responsible for DHCP implementation and
service.
3. Domain Name System (DNS)
a) DNS is a general-purpose distributed and
replicated data query service chießy used on the
Internet for translating hostnames into Internet
addresses, as well as the style of hostname used
on the Internet (though such a name is properly
called a fully-qualiÞed domain name).
b) OIT is responsible for DNS service on the
Network.
4. Protocols
The only authorized routed protocol on the Boise State
University network is Transmission Control Protocol/Internet
Protocol (TCP/IP).
III. Wireless Guidelines
OIT will work with campus leadership to educate faculty, students and staff on
the shared responsibility of wireless access.
A. Access
1. The University provides wireless access to computing and
IT resources for employees, associates, students, and
guests as part of the services offered to enhance
productivity in the workplace. Wireless networks operate
within a shared and Þnite radio spectrum. OIT will maintain
administrative rights over this spectrum on campus and
remote University buildings to ensure fair and efÞcient
allocation of resources.
2. OIT will manage the RF spectrum and reserve speciÞc
20mhz wide 5ghz channels for use by non OIT departments
and vendors. Departments and vendors shall only use the
assigned channels.
3. The spectrum usage applies to all device trafÞc and
interference occurring in the following frequencies ranges:
a) 800 and 900 MHz, industrial, scientiÞc, and
medical (IS) bands, all modes
b) 2.21920-1930 MHz, all modes
c) 2.4-5 GHz, all modes
d) 4.9-6 GHz, all modes
B. Wireless Spectrum
1. OIT will grant, limit, or restrict access to the wireless
spectrum within the physical spaces and on grounds owned
and operated by Boise State University.
2. OIT will monitor the spectrum on a continuous basis, and
may regulate all wireless activities at all institution sites,
including remote ofÞces and common areas.
3. Should any device create harmful interference, OIT or
their designee may request immediate or cause deactivation
of the device until such time as it can be reactivated without
causing harmful interference.
C. Acceptable Usage
Access to wireless networks owned or operated by Boise State
imposes certain responsibilities and obligations and is granted subject

to University polices, and local, state, and federal laws. Acceptable
use of wireless networks includes, but is not limited to the following:
1. Respecting system security mechanisms, and not taking
measures designed to circumvent, ignore, or break these
mechanisms,
2. Showing consideration for the consumption and utilization
of IT resources, and
3. Assisting in the performance of remediation steps in the
event of a detected vulnerability or compromise.
D. Privacy Expectations
While the University respects usersÕ rights to privacy, the institution
cannot assure any level of privacy as stated in University Policy #
8000, Information Technology Use
(https://policy.boisestate.edu/information-technology/information-
technology-resource-use/) 
. Users are responsible for taking
reasonable measures to ensure their own privacy on the wireless
network.
E. Wireless Monitoring and Enforcement
1. Information technology resources must be available to
support the UniversityÕs mission. Staff may need to inspect
the resources to maintain or improve the function, if there is
a suspicion of misconduct or if there may be a violation of
Federal, State, local law or evidence of violation of
University policy.
2. Offenders may be prosecuted under all applicable laws
including but not limited to the Communications Act of 1934
(amended), the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act
of 1974, the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986, The
Computer Virus Eradication Act of 1989, The Idaho
Computer Crimes Statute, and the Electronic
Communications Privacy Act.
F. Wireless Disclaimer
1. Individuals using wireless networks owned by Boise State
do so subject to applicable laws and Boise State policies.
Users assume all associated risks and agree to hold Boise
State and its employees harmless for: (1) the compromise of
any personal information (e.g., credit card numbers); (2) any
damage caused to usersÕ hardware or software due to
security issues; or (3) any other harm caused by viruses or
hacking while on Boise State wireless networks.
2. Boise State disclaims any responsibility and/or warranties
for information and materials residing on non-University
systems or available over publicly accessible networks.
Such materials do not necessarily reßect the attitudes,
opinions, or values of Boise State, its faculty, staff, or
students.
IV. Problem Resolution
The responsibility of connectivity to the Data Network and the services it
provides is shared equally by all Boise State University members. In the event
of an incident that affects the ability of end-users to access the Data
Backbone, OIT will take whatever steps necessary to Þx the problem. In the
event that an incident occurs off-hours, the senior person in Technology
Services will follow the emergency response plan, which may result in the

disconnection of a building or the re-routing of Þber.
V. Policy Non-Compliance
Violation of any portion of this policy may result in disciplinary action. Incidents
will be evaluated on a case by case basis and may result in the following
sanctions up to:
A. Exclusion or expulsion, in the case of students as outlined in the
Student Code of Conduct
 (https://policy.boisestate.edu/student-
affairs/code-of-conduct/) 
, orB. Exclusion or dismissal from employment, in the case of faculty and
staff, or
C. Exclusion from campus, in the case of the public.
Policy Management 
   |    PolicyInfo@boisestate.edu 
   |    (208) 426-1349 
   |    Chief Operating OfÞcer
© 2018 Boise State University 1910 University Dr., Boise, ID 83725 (208) 426-1000

