Is Peer-to-Peer File-Sharing
Software Allowed at MSU?
Peer-to-peer Þle-sharing software has
many legal and legitimate uses,
including sharing 
content related to
your schoolwork.
Search
!"#$%&'(#)"*'+'(",(-"
!"#$%&
Search
ResNet Home
Help Desk
Virus Removal
FAQ
About
Cable TV
Piracy
RESNET ACCEPTABLE USE
POLICY
Peer-to-peer software may be used
over ResNet networks to share digital
material with 
copyright holder
permission. However, the software
may not, under any circumstances, 
beused for illegal downloading and or
sharing.
Contact UsMontana State University
P.O. Box 172080
Bozeman, MT 59717-2080
Tel: (406) 994-1929
Fax: (406) 994-1918
E-mail: 
resnet@montana.edu
Location: Room 115, North Hedges
Help Desk HoursMontana State University Residential Network
Wired and Wireless Acceptable Use Policy
Montana State University provides a Residential Network (ResNet) to its Residence 
Halls and
Family & Graduate Housing for educational, instructional, and entertainment 
purposes. It is
the responsibility of each student and/or family to use these services 
appropriately and in
compliance with all university, city, county, state, and federal 
laws and regulations. MSU

Residential Network reserves the right to restrict access 
and enforce the terms of this
agreement.
1. Residential Network wired Internet services are for the use of MSU residents only.
The registered user is responsible for any and all activity occurring on the wired
connection registered to them. Falsifying registration information will result in 
the
temporary or permanent loss of services, with a possible referral to the OfÞce 
ofStudent Affairs for disciplinary action.
2. Residential Network Wireless is available only in the Residence Halls and Family &
Graduate Housing (excluding the Westside Houses), and has both secured and
open/guest 
access. An MSU ÒNetIDÓ is required for access to MSU-Secure.
Residential Network MSU-Guest 
is an open, unsecured network available to the
general public.
3. The use of any type of wireless equipment including but not limited to wireless
switches, 
wireless routers, and wireless hubs in the Residence Halls or Family &
Graduate Housing 
is prohibited. The use of a wired hub or router in the Residence
Halls or Family & 
Graduate Housing is also prohibited. Permission to use a wired
switch must be approved 
prior to its use and will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis
by the Residential 
Network administration. Users are prohibited from using a switch
or other device to 
provide a Residential Network connection to any other person.
4. The Residential Network is a shared resource. Users will refrain from abuse and
excessive 
bandwidth usage as deemed by Residential Network administrative staff and
may be asked 
to cease any activity causing problems on the network.
5. The Residential Network administration reserves the right to immediately suspend
service 
to any device temporarily if they are found to contain viruses or malware in
order 
to protect the network. It is the responsibility of the user to make sure that their
device has current virus and malware protection software installed and operational.
The user's Residential Network connection will be restored when it has been
determined 
the userÕs device is free of viruses and is running current virus protection
software.
6. Users shall abide by all applicable copyright laws and licenses. The Residential
Network 
may only be used for legal purposes and to access only those systems,
software, and 
data the user is authorized to use. Sharing access to copyrighted
software or other 
copyrighted materials is prohibited unless speciÞcally authorized by
the copyright 
holder. Please see MSUÕs "Copyright Infringement Disclosure" on the
MSU Student Success 
website and Enterprise Alleged Copyright Infringement
Response Policy at
http://www.montana.edu/policy/enterprise_it/copyright_infringement.html
 for more
information about the consequences of copyright infringement at MSU. Service 
maybe suspended immediately for any user found to be in violation.
7. Commercial or for-proÞt use of any MSU network is prohibited.
8. Any user who attempts to circumvent/defeat any mechanism put in place to manage
the 
network will be subject to immediate termination of service and possible
disciplinary 
action.
9. Residential Network services and wiring may not be modiÞed or extended by users for
any purpose. This applies to all network wiring, hardware, data jacks, and wireless
access points.
10. Costs to repair physical damage to the Residential Network hardware in the room or
apartment (including wiring, data jack, conduit or box, and wireless access points) 
willbe assessed to the resident.
11. 
The hosting of network services from the userÕs devices is prohibited.
12. Use of Residential Network implies the userÕs consent for Residential Network
administration 
or its agents to monitor activities, trafÞc, and data via the userÕs data
connection 
for the purpose of determining compliance with this Acceptable Use
Policy.
13. It is up to the user to make their computer and data safe from other users on the
network; the user will not hold MSU liable for malicious acts by other network users.
14. Any unauthorized attempt to access another computer or device is prohibited. Any
reports 
received by the Residential Network administration of unauthorized attempts
to access 
other connected devices will result in the immediate disconnection of the
suspected 
network connection until the matter has been resolved. If users have a

reason to believe 
another user or group of users is interfering with their access to the
network, they 
may report the problem to the Residential Network ofÞce for
investigation and, if 
necessary, corrective action. (Residential Network Service Desk
phone: 406-994-1929; 
email: resnet@montana.edu
).15. Residential Network reserves the right to disconnect any computer or device sending
disruptive signals to the network, whether because of a defective cable or any other
hardware/software problem. It will be the userÕs responsibility to correct any such
problem before the computer will be reconnected to the network.
16. Residential Network reserves the right to disconnect any/all network-connected
devices 
temporarily for the purpose of network maintenance, or to enforce the
Acceptable Use 
Policy.
AUP Enforcement
Consequences for AUP violations will be handled on a case-by-case basis and may result 
inimmediate to permanent suspension of Residential Network service. Minor infractions 
of this
policy are generally resolved informally by Residential Network administration. 
This may be
done through phone, email, or in-person discussion and education. Residential 
Network also
offers a service desk to assist students who live on campus with their 
computers or devices.
Repeated infractions or misconduct that is more serious will result in the temporary 
orpermanent loss of Residential Network access privileges, or the modiÞcation of 
those
privileges. In addition, offenders may be referred to their sponsoring advisor, 
department, or
other appropriate University ofÞce for further action. If the user 
is a student, the matter may
be referred to the OfÞce of Student Affairs for disciplinary 
action.
Residential Network may require that the user bring their computer or device to our 
service
desk in order to verify compliance with this Acceptable Use Policy before 
service is restored.
Any action that violates local, state, or federal laws may result in the immediate 
loss of
Residential Network access privileges and will be referred to the appropriate 
University
ofÞces and/or law enforcement authorities.
About ResNet
 Contact
 Student Jobs
 DMCA Procedures
 Acceptable Use Policy
More Information
Admissions
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Parents & Family
Alumni
Resources
Accessibility
Contact List
Directories
Jobs
Legal & Privacy Policy
Site Index
Follow UsFacebook
 Twitter
 YouTube
 Instagram
 LinkedIn
Located in 
Bozeman, MT
edit

