Information Technology
ResNet Acceptable Use Policy
PURPOSEThis policy sets forth the regulations for the use of ResNet, the residential
computing network, at Western Michigan University.
SCOPE
This policy applies to everyone living in WMU residence halls and
apartments.
POLICY STATEMENTS
Residential computing network services and wiring may not be modified or
extended beyond the area of their intended use. This applies to all network
wiring, hardware, and in-room jacks.
Switches, routers, or wireless access points may not be connected to the
network. See 
Wireless Western guidelines
.The residential network may not be used to provide Internet access to
anyone outside of, or within, the University community for any purposes.
WMU-specific or commercially obtained network resources may not be
retransmitted outside of, or within, the University community.
The residential network is a shared resource. Thus, network use or
applications which inhibit or interfere with the use of the network by others
are not permitted. (For example, using an IP address not registered to you,
or applications which use an unusually high portion of the bandwidth for
extended periods of time, thus inhibiting the use of the network by others,
are not permitted).
Use of the residential network must comply with all University's policies.
O!ice of Information Technology
Western Michigan University
Kalamazoo MI 49008-5206 USA
(269) 387-5430
Forgery or other misrepresentation of one's identity via electronic or any
other form of communication is a violation.
Prosecution under State and Federal laws may also apply.
Only the Bronco NetID and/or computer accounts for which the resident
has authorization may be used.
 You may not use your connection to:
Run a business or organization for profit or non-profit purposes.
Monitor data on the network by means of any monitoring or "sniffing"
software.Provide a pass-through site to other campus hosts, provide remote login
(e.g. telnet access) on your computer for others than yourself.
Set up a router to provide wireless connections.
Provide information to others on the network such as newsfeeds,
Anonymous FTP site, BBS, UUCP site, web hosting, etc.
Harass, libel, or slander anyone or fraudulent representations.
Copy or transmit copyrighted material.
Post or send obscene, pornographic, sexually explicit, or offensive material.
Post or send material that is contrary to the mission or values of the
University.
JUSTIFICATION
Residential computing at Western Michigan University provides wired and
wireless in-room connection services in on-campus residences in support of
the educational mission of the University. It is the responsibility of each
resident to use these services appropriately and in compliance with all
University, city, county, state, and federal laws and regulations.
ENFORCEMENT
The Office of Information Technology reserves the right to terminate any
network connection without notice should it be determined that network
traffic generated from said connection drastically inhibits or interferes with
the use of the network by others.
Failure to comply with this  policy may result in termination of network
services and loss of computing resource privileges. In addition, any person

found to be in violation of this policy will be subject to appropriate
disciplinary action as defined by current University policy.
If your in-room network connection is terminated due to violations of the
above policies, and you subsequently register legitimately or rectify the
problem, you may be charged a $30 port-reactivation fee to regain access to
the network. This fee is in addition to the normal semester fee.
REFERENCEComputing resources acceptable use policy
Student code of conduct
 DOCUMENT ACTION
Revised: Dec. 2011 
Western Michigan University
Kalamazoo MI 49008-5200 USA
(269) 387-1000Contact WMU
© 2018 All rights reserved.

