Home
 : Responsible Use Policy - Overview and Summary
QUICKREFERENCESNews and Resources
Free Antivirus Software
Cal Poly Policies and
Standards
Responsible Use Policy
Information Security
Forms
Copyright Compliance
CSU Policies
SANS Security
SANS Security
Awareness Tip of
Awareness Tip of
the Daythe DayTwo-Step Veri
!cation 
NOV 13, 2018Cloud Security 
NOV 8, 2018Phone Call Attacks 
NOV 7, 2018Email and Emotions NOV 5, 2018When Away 
OCT 31, 2018See All Articles
!MAPS!MAPSInformation Security
"MENU"MENU#SEARCH#SEARCH
US CE!
T Current
US CE!
T Current
Activity
Activity
Holiday Scams and
Malware Campaigns NOV 19, 2018Google Releases
Security Updates for
Chrome NOV 19, 2018Cybersecurity and
InfrastructureSecurity Agency 
NOV 19, 2018Microso" Releases
November 2018
Security Updates 
NOV 13, 2018Adobe Releases
Security Updates 
NOV 13, 2018See All Articles
Responsible Use Policy - Overview and Summary
Introduction
Preface
Applicability
Rights and Responsibilities
Existing Legal Context
Critical Issues That Impact the Conduct of Users with Respect to IT Resources
Compliance and Enforcement
Reporting Irresponsible or Inappropriate Use
Some Examples of Misuse
Implementation
Policy Development History

Introduction
A polytechnic university must excel in helping its users understand and conduct their teaching,
learning and administrative e
!
orts so as to be leaders in the responsible uses of such powerful
and increasingly pervasive technologies.  Cal Poly has established, posted and communicated a
detailed 
Responsible Use Policy (RUP)
 outlining the respective responsibilities and required
actions by members of the campus community regarding responsible use of the UniversityÕs
information technology (IT) resources. 
The intent is to be clear and current in identifying the critical issues that impact the use of these
resources and to o
!
er speci
"
c policy and procedural guidance that expands understanding of
campus requirements while encouraging compliance. The full policy describes the legal and policy
requirements with which the University must comply in order to function e
!
ectively in todayÕs
complex information rich teaching and learning environment, providing de
"
nitions, examples and
context where appropriate.
This document summarizes the key policy requirements and includes a brief overview of its
guidelines to encourage users to understand how and why they should wisely and e
#
ciently use
campus IT resources and become aware of the important laws and practices in place to ensure
they comply with the policy and its requirements.  While this summary provides a good starting
point, each user is responsible for being fully aware of the RUP and its implications to personal
conduct. Please take time as soon as possible to 
read and review the RUP in its entirety
.  For more
information, contact 
it-policy@calpoly.edu
The Information Services O
#
ce of the CIO will continue to solicit user feedback to insure that the
policy is clear, well understood and communicated, and kept current to the issues and factors
that underlie the role and uses of IT throughout the University.
PrefaceAs a public institution of higher education, Cal Poly is committed to fostering an educational
climate in which students, faculty and sta
!
 can approach their respective roles with a sense of
high purpose and in which they may study and work free from harassment and intimidation.
The  RUP recognizes that personal viewing or transmittal of potentially o
!
ensive digital materials
(for example, sexually explicit materials) may result in excessive use of campus computer and
network resources inconsistent with professional responsibilities and ethical standards. Such
practices may also result in educational and work environments that are hostile or are perceived
to be hostile.
In consequence, all members of the campus community are advised that the University does not

condone and will not tolerate any such actions that are proven to constitute excessive use, to
create a hostile work environment, or to have the e
!
ect of harassing or intimidating members of
the campus community. In addition, any viewing or transmitting of illegal materials (for example,
child pornography or obscene materials) is explicitly prohibited.
The University also emphasizes that its policies are not aimed to impair free expression and open
inquiry or unduly to restrict access to any lawful digital materials by those who would do so within
the guidelines of the RUP.
Applicability
The RUP applies to all users and all IT resources provided by the University and its direct a
#
liated
partners in support of Cal PolyÕs core academic mission and to enable users to access,
communicate, store, retrieve, and transmit messages, digital 
"
les, and images.  The RUP also
relates to the impact and consequences such actions of individuals or groups may have on the IT
infrastructure and identi
"
es suitable conduct where such conduct is known or described as part
of law or acceptable practice.
Additional use policies and terms and conditions may be in place for speci
"
c resources provided
by Information Technology Services (ITS) or other Cal Poly units.  Users must become familiar with
any policies when agreeing to use IT resources provided by or on behalf of the Cal Poly. 
Commercial IT services also require compliance with their use policies and users should be aware
of them as well to the extent they could be di
!
erent and in some cases more restrictive.
Rights and Responsibilities
Computers and networks can provide access to resources on and o
!
 campus, as well as the
ability to communicate with other users worldwide.  Such open access is a privilege, in much the
same way as a driverÕs license is granted and requires that the individual user know what is
expected of them and that they act responsibly.
The principal concern of the RUP is the e
!
ective and e
#
cient use of IT resources to insure that
the resources are used in a manner that does not impair or impede the use of these resources by
others in their pursuit of the mission of the University.  Users must respect the rights of other
users, respect the integrity of the systems and related virtual and physical resources, and observe
all relevant laws, regulations, and contractual obligations.
Users are responsible for staying informed of applicable laws and regulations governing the use
of IT resources and, when unsure, to seek advice and guidance from the full RUP as posted and
issued and from the appropriate University o
#
cials assigned to advise on such matters.

Existing Legal Context
All existing laws (federal and state) and University regulations and policies apply, including not
only those laws and regulations that are speci
"
c to computers and networks, but also those that
apply generally to personal conduct.
Critical issues that impact the conduct of users with respect to IT
resourcesIT resources are provided to support the UniversityÕs core mission of education, research and
service and such use has priority over all other uses.
Electronic mail and computer 
"
les are considered private to the full extent of the law.
The scrutiny of content will not be the normal practice of o
#
cials in determining how IT
resources are used; however, the University will act on alleged violations that concern
content or speci
"
c uses and will investigate such claims as appropriate.
The University reserves the right to limit access and to use appropriate means to safeguard
its resources, preserve network/system integrity and ensure continued service delivery at all
times, including routine monitoring of IT resources.
All members of the University are responsible for ensuring that their handling of information
about individuals is consistent with university policies and federal/state laws on the privacy
of such information.
Certain activities will not be considered misuse when clearly authorized by appropriate
university o
#
cials for designated educational or administrative purposes, including security
or performance testing, provided they do not interfere with other uses of campus resources.
Responsible use will be given priority over the current or potential design, capability or
functionality of speci
"
c technologies and resources.
Access to IT resources implies a degree of risk that users may encounter Òo
!
ensiveÓ
materials.  As a matter of policy, the University protects expression by members of its
community. However, in exceptional cases, such materials may present a hostile
environment under the law and warrant certain restrictive actions.
The impact of a single user or group of users (e.g., residence halls) on campus IT resources
will be of direct interest and primary concern in determining how the RUP is applied.
Compliance and Enforcement
Users may be held accountable for their conduct under any applicable University policies,
procedures, or collective bargaining agreements.  Enforcement will be based upon receipt of one
or more formal complaints about a speci
"
c incident or through discovery of a possible violation in
the normal course of administering IT resources. 

Complaints alleging serious misuse will be directed to those responsible for taking appropriate
disciplinary action.  Appeals of university actions resulting from enforcement of this policy will be
handled through existing disciplinary/grievance processes. First o
!
enses and minor infractions
are generally resolved informally by the entity responsible for the resource.  Repeat o
!
enses and
serious incidents may lead to formal disciplinary action up to and including dismissal or
termination.  Misuse may result in the loss of computing privileges and prosecution under
applicable civil and criminal statutes.
Reporting Irresponsible or Inappropriate Use
Suspected infractions of this policy should be reported to ITS at 
abuse@calpoly.edu
 in accordance
with 
Appendix D, Policy Implementation and Practices
.Some examples of misuse include, but are not limited to, the following
activities:Reproducing, distributing or displaying copyrighted materials without prior permission of the
owner, including text, images, photographs, music and movie 
"
les, etc.
Using a computer account, IP address, computer name or port you are not assigned or
authorized to use.
Sharing a password for your computer/network account with others.
Deliberately or inadvertently wasting computing resources.
Using electronic communications to harass others, send phishing or SPAM messages,
disseminate mass mail without permission, or send mail "bombs."
Using the campus network to gain unauthorized access to any computer systems.
Running a port scan on a computer system without prior permission of the owner.
Performing an act that interferes with the normal operation of any IT resources.
Knowingly running or installing, or giving to another user, a program intended to damage or
to place 
"
les on another users' account/system without their knowledge.
Using applications that inhibit or interfere with the use of the network by others.
Attempting to circumvent data protection schemes or uncover security loopholes.
Violating terms of applicable software licensing agreements or copyright laws.
Masking the identity of an account or machine.
Attempting to monitor or tamper with another user's electronic communications, or reading,
copying, changing, or deleting another user's 
"
les or software without the explicit permission
of the owner.
Using campus IT resources for personal gain, including running a business for pro
"
t or non-
pro
"
t purposes, promoting and selling products and services, etc.

Providing services or accounts from your computer to anyone but yourself, e.g., web servers,
FTP servers. Providing a pass-through site to other campus hosts. Providing remote log in
(e.g. telnet access) on your computer for anyone other than yourself.
Registering a Cal Poly IP address with any other domain name.
Registering a non-calpoly.edu domain name without permission.
Capturing passwords or data on the network not meant for you.
Posting materials that violate existing laws or the University's codes of conduct.
Modifying or extending Cal Poly network services and wiring beyond the area of intended
use. This applies to all network wiring, hardware and in-room jacks.
Using your Cal Poly portal password on any other system or online service
Appendix B - Speci
"
c Examples of Responsible and Irresponsible Uses
Implementation
EFFECTIVE DATE:3/12/2001REVIEW FREQUENCY:AnnualRESPONSIBLE OFFICER:Vice Provost/Chief Information O
#
cer
Policy Development History
DATEACTIONMarch2015Migrated, reformatted and updated as needed RUP and related pages
04/25/2005Modi
"
ed Section E.11 and Appendix C to address accessibility to websites and digital content,
and to add references to related policies and laws. Updated link to Con
"
dential-Security
Agreements in Section E.2.
03/01/2005Modi
"
ed Section E.4, E.4.8 and E.4.12 and Appendix A to address network attached devices and
network communication devices. Added reference to Cal Poly's Information Security Policy to
Section E.4 and Appendix C. Updated links to campus websites as needed.
06/30/2003Added FAQ and modi
"
ed E.2 and Appendices A and D to comply with State law on disclosure of
personal information, and updated Appendix C
04/16/2003Added preface, reformatted and updated policy development history, updated links in Appendix
CApril 2002Appendices and links to websites were updated and more FAQs were posted online
3/12/2001Final policy approved by President Warren Baker and posted online
2/13/2001Academic Senate passed a resolution endoring the policy
Feb 2001
Policy endorsed by Associated Students, Inc. (ASI)

Feb 2001
Policy endorsed by 
Information Resource Management Policy and Planning Committee (IRMPPC)
Feb 2001
Policy endorsed by 
Instructional Advisory Committee on Computing (IACC)
Feb 2001
Policy endorsed by 
Administrative Advisory Committee on Computing (AACC)
Aug 2000Interim policy released and posted online
Oct 1999
Initial draft policy released and posted online
 Continue to Responsible Use Policy, Table of Contents
Related Content
QUICK REFERENCESNews and Resources
Free Antivirus Software
Cal Poly Policies and Standards
Responsible Use Policy
Information Security Forms
Copyright Compliance
CSU Policies
SANS Security Awareness Tip of the Day
SANS Security Awareness Tip of the Day
Two-Step Veri
"
cation 
NOV 13, 2018Cloud Security 
NOV 8, 2018Phone Call Attacks 
NOV 7, 2018Email and Emotions 
NOV 5, 2018When Away 

OCT 31, 2018See All Articles
US CE!
T Current Activity
US CE!
T Current Activity
Holiday Scams and Malware Campaigns 
NOV 19, 2018Google Releases Security Updates for Chrome 
NOV 19, 2018Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency 
NOV 19, 2018Microsoft Releases November 2018 Security Updates 
NOV 13, 2018Adobe Releases Security Updates 
NOV 13, 2018See All Articles

Security Tips
Security Tips
Five Steps to Staying Secure - SANS (PDF)
Best PracticesBest PracticesOur 10 Best PacticesContact UsContact UsContactsDid you know?
Did you know?
Stay Safe Online Tips
CP Home
Directory
Campus Maps & Directions
University Store
Calendar
Employment
Campus Policies
Contact Us
Privacy NoticeWeb Accessibility Statement
CONNECT WITH CAL POLY
© 2018 California Polytechnic State University  
  San Luis Obispo, California 93407
Phone: 805-756-1111

