! Responsible Use of University Computing Resources at
Miami University
(MUPIM 19.2/OAC 3339-19-02/Student Handbook 1.6/Graduate Handbook 2.7)General Statement 
(MUPIM 19.2.A)
University Computing Resources include, but are not limited to, end-user computing devices, servers, networks,
email, software, printers, scanners, video distribution systems, telephone systems, and other computing hardware
and software, whether owned by the University or contracted from a third party. All such University Computing
Resources are intended for University-related use, including direct and indirect support of the UniversityÕs instruction,
research, and service missions; of University administrative functions; of student and campus life activities; and of
the free exchange of ideas.
The rights of free expression and academic freedom apply to the use of University Computing Resources; so, too,
however, do the responsibilities and limits associated with those rights. All who use the University Computing
Resources must act responsibly, in accordance with the highest standards of ethical and legal behavior. Thus,
legitimate use of University Computing Resources does not extend to whatever is technically possible. Users must
abide by all applicable restrictions, whether or not they are built into the operating system or network and/or whether
or not they can be circumvented by technical means.
This policy applies to all users of University Computing Resources, whether or not a
!liated with the University, and
to all uses of those resources, whether on campus or from remote locations. Additional policies may apply to speciÞc
computers, computer systems, and/or networks provided and operated by speciÞc units of the University, and/or to
uses within speciÞc units. Some of these policies are listed in Sections 19.2.H and 19.5 of this Manual.
Policy 
(MUPIM 19.2.B)
All University Computing Resources users must:
A. Comply with all federal, Ohio, and other applicable law; all generally applicable University rulesand policies; and all applicable contracts and licenses. Examples of such laws, rules, policies,contracts, and licenses include: the laws of libel, privacy, copyright, trademark, obscenity, and child
pornography; the Electronic Communications Privacy Act and the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act,
which prohibit ÒhackingÓ, ÒcrackingÓ, and similar activities; the UniversityÕs Code of Student Conduct;
the Miami University Policy and Information Manual, the UniversityÕs sexual harassment policy; and all
applicable software licenses. In particular, users must:
i. respect the right of others to be free from harassment or intimidation to the same extent that
this right is recognized in the use of other communication; and
**Policy Library moved to
www.miamioh.edu/policy-library **
2018-2019 policy revisions are located in new policy library

ii. respect copyrights, intellectual-property rights, ownership of Þles and passwords. Unauthorized
copying of Þles or passwords belonging to others or to the University may constitute plagiarism
or theft. Accessing or modifying Þles without authorization (including altering information,introducing viruses or other malware, or damaging Þles) is unethical, may be illegal, and may
lead to sanctions; andiii. not send unsolicited bulk email (ÒspamÓ) or email designed to trick users into providing their
login credentials or other personal information (Òphishing emailÓ
"
).Users who engage in electronic communications with persons in other states or countries or on other systems or
networks should be aware that they may also be subject to the laws of those other states and countries and the rules
and policies of those other systems and networks. Users are responsible for ascertaining, understanding, and
complying with the laws, rules, policies, contracts, and licenses applicable to their particular uses.Miami University extends these policies and guidelines to systems outside the University that are accessed via the
UniversityÕs facilities (e.g., electronic mail or remote logins using the UniversityÕs Internet connections).
1. Use only those University Computing Resources that they are authorized to use and use them only in
the manner and to the extent authorized. Ability to access University Computing Resources does not, by
itself, imply authorization to do so. Users are responsible for ascertaining what authorizations are necessary
and for obtaining them before proceeding. Accounts, passwords, and other authentication mechanisms, may
not, under any circumstances, be shared with, or used by, persons other than those to whom they have been
assigned by the University.
2. Respect the Þnite capacity of University Computing Resources and limit use so as not to consume an
unreasonable amount of those resources or to interfere unreasonably with the activity of other users
.Although there is no set bandwidth, disk space, CPU time, or other limit applicable to all uses of University
Computing Resources, the University may require users of those resources to limit or refrain from speciÞc uses
in accordance with this principle. The reasonableness of any particular use will be judged in the context of all
of the relevant circumstances.
3. Limit the personal use of University Computing Resources and refrain from using those resources for
personal commercial purposes or for personal Þnancial or other gain.
 Personal use of UniversityComputing Resources is permitted when it does not consume a signiÞcant amount of those resources, does
not interfere with the performance of the userÕs job or other University responsibilities, and is otherwise in
compliance with this and other University policy. Further limits may be imposed upon personal use in
accordance with normal supervisory procedures.
4. Refrain from stating or implying that they speak on behalf of the University and from using University
trademarks and logos without authorization to do so. A!liation with the University does not, by itself, implyauthorization to speak on behalf of the University. Authorization to use University trademarks and logos may
be granted only by Miami University. The use of appropriate disclaimers is encouraged. Personal web pages
linked to the University Web should disclaim association with Miami University.
Enforcement 
(MUPIM 19.2.C)
Whenever it becomes necessary to enforce University rules or policies, an authorized administrator may: disallow
network connections by certain computers (even departmental and personal ones); require adequate identiÞcation of
computers and users on the network; undertake audits of software or information on shared systems where policy
violations are possible; take steps to secure compromised computers that are connected to the network; or deny
access to computers, the network, and institutional software and databases.
Sanctions 
(MUPIM 19.2.D)

Users who violate this policy may be denied access to University Computing Resources and may be subject to other
penalties and disciplinary action, both within and outside of the University. Violations will normally be handled
through the University disciplinary procedures applicable to the relevant user. Alleged violations by students will
normally be investigated, and the O!ce of Ethics and Student Conßict Resolution will normally impose any penaltiesor other discipline.However, the University, through its information managers, may suspend or block access to an account prior to the
initiation or completion of such procedures; when it reasonably appears necessary to do so, and in order to protect
the integrity, security, or functionality of University Computing Resources or other computing resources; or to protect
the University from liability.
The University may also refer suspected violations of applicable law to appropriate law enforcement agencies.
Privacy and Security 
(MUPIM 19.2.E)
The University employs various measures to protect the security of University Computing Resources and users
accounts. However, users should be aware that the University does not and cannot guarantee such security.
Users should also be aware that their uses of University Computing Resources are not private. While the University
does not routinely monitor individual usage of  University Computing Resources, the normal operation and
maintenance of University Computing Resources require the backup and caching of data and communications, the
logging of activity, the monitoring of usage patterns, and other such activities that are necessary for the rendition of
service. Systems or technical managers, as part of their technical responsibilities, may occasionally need to diagnose
or solve problems by examining the contents of particular Þles. Data from University Computing Resources may be
used to evaluate the e!ciency of University operations and personnel.The University may also monitor the activity and accounts of individual users of University Computing Resources,
including individual sessions and communications, without notice when:1. the user has voluntarily made them accessible to the public, as by posting to Usenet or a web site;2. it reasonably appears necessary to do so to protect the integrity, security, or functionality of University
Computing Resources or other computing resources or to protect the University from liability;
3. there is reasonable cause to believe that the user has violated, or is violating, any University policy;
4. an account or device appears to be engaged in unusual or unusually excessive activity, as indicated by the
monitoring of general activity and usage patterns; or
5. it is otherwise required or permitted by law.
Any such individual monitoring, other than that speciÞed in (1), or required by law, or necessary to respond to
perceived emergency situations, must be authorized in advance by the Vice President for Information Technology or
a designee of same.The University, in its discretion, may disclose the results of any such general or individual monitoring, including the
contents and records of individual communications, to appropriate University personnel or law enforcement agencies
and may use those results in appropriate University disciplinary proceedings. Communications made by means of
University Computing Resources are also generally subject to OhioÕs Public Records Statute to the same extent as
they would be if made on paper.
The UserÕs Responsibilities 
(MUPIM 19.2.F)
1. Be aware of the limits of computer security
. Although the University employs various measures to protect
the security of its computing resources and user accounts, users should be aware that the University cannot
guarantee such security. Users should therefore engage in Òsafe computingÓ practices by establishing

appropriate access restrictions for their accounts, guarding their passwords, and changing them regularly.
2. Be responsible for backing up and protecting personal Þles.
 Although the University under certaincircumstances may provide storage space and under certain circumstances that storage may be backed up,
Miami University assumes no responsibility for the loss or recovery of personal Þles.
3. Be responsible for protecting Miami data. 
All users have a responsibility to protect Miami data from
unauthorized disclosure.
The UniversityÕs Responsibilities 
(MUPIM 19.2.G)
The University owns various computers and the entire internal computer networks used on campus. The University
also has various rights to the software and information residing on, developed on, or licensed for, these computers
and networks. The University has the responsibility to administer, protect, and monitor this aggregation of
computers, software, and networks. SpeciÞcally, purposes of the UniversityÕs information technology management
are to:
1. manage computing resources so that members of the University community beneÞt equitably from their use;
2. protect University computers, networks and information from destruction, tampering, and unauthorized
inspection and use;3. communicate University policies and the responsibilities of individuals systematically and regularly in a variety
of formats to all parts of the University community;4. establish and support reasonable standards of security for electronic information that community members
produce, use, or distribute. Standards for security and access are elaborated in the document ÒMiami
University Computing Security Policy,Ó as well as in documents derived from it;
5. monitor policies and propose changes in policy as events or technology warrant.
Other Miami University Computing Policies 
(MUPIM 19.2.H)
ÒResponsible Use of Computing Resources at Miami UniversityÓ was adapted from The Ohio State UniversityÕs Policy
on Responsible Use of University Computing Resources
. Miami University is grateful to The Ohio State University forallowing us to use its policy as a model.Additional policies, including the ÒMiami University Computing Security PolicyÓ, elaborate the above policies andoutline procedures for implementation.
Additional policies that are not in this document may apply to speciÞc computers, computer systems, or networks
provided or operated by speciÞc units of the University. Consult the operators or managers of these systems for
further information.Previous (Computer Peripherals and Software Acquisition)
Next (Illegal or Unauthorized Use of University Computing Resources)
Search Policies
!"#$%&
 '(How to use the new Miami University Policy Library2017-2018Accessible Technology Policy
Unmanned Aircraft System (Drones and Model Aircraft)
Title IX Protocol-Sexual Misconduct Policy and Procedures for Students at Miami University
Title IX Protocol-Sexual Misconduct Policy and Procedures for Employees at Miami University
Alcohol and University Property
Policies That Were Revised 2017
HomeAlphabetical Policy ListAcademic PolicyUniversity Communication and MarketingIntercollegiate Athletics
Business & AdministrationEmployment Policies/InformationUniversity AdvancementGovernance
Information Technology
Use of University Property
Research
StudentsVisitors
Emergency Information
NoticeNew/Revised Policies

Parking©2015 Miami University. All rights reserved.
POWERED BY PARABOLA
 & WORDPRESS.
