The Ohio State University 
Œ University Policies 
policies.osu.edu/
 Page 
1 of 
5                  
Responsible Use of University Computing 
and Network Resources
  University Policy
   Applies to:
 Faculty, staff, students, agents, 
suppliers/
contractors, volunteers, 
sponsored guests
 of 
academic and administrative units, and affiliated entities.
  Responsible 
Office
 Office of the Chief Information Officer
  POLICY
 Issued:
 05/10/2000
 Revised:
 02/01/2013
 Reviewed:
 05/1
6/2016
  This policy provides guidance for establishing responsibilities and limitations associated with the use of university 
computing resources. 
The general guiding principle behind the policy is that "cyberspace is not a separate legal 
jurisdiction;" that existing, generally applicable laws, rules, and policies apply equally to the use of university computing
 resources.
 Adherence to this policy wi
ll require compliance with all applicable laws and university policies, and all applicable 
restrictions, whether or not they are built into the operating system or network and whether or not they can be 

circumvented by technical means.
  Purpose of the Poli
cy To provide expectations 
to support the responsible use of
 university computing resources.
  Definitions
 Term
 Definition
 Computing resources
 Computers, computer systems, networks, and devices including but not limited to mobile phones, 
smartphones, and 
other mobile devices, and the institutional data they contain.
 College, department 
and unit policies
 Colleges, departments and units may have policies that provide for additional rights, restrictions and/or 
responsibilities that augment the university policy and apply to specific computers, computer systems, or 
networks, or to users within their specific 
units. These policies require approval by the 
chief 
information 
officer or the 
chief 
information 
officer™s designees.
  Policy Details
 I. As a part of the physical and social learning infrastructure, Ohio State acquires, develops
, and maintains computers, 
com
puter systems, and networks. These 
computing 
resources
 are intended for university
-related purposes, 
including direct and indirect support of the university's 
teaching
, research, and service missions; university 
administrative functions; student and campus
 life activities; and the free exchange of ideas among members of the 
university community and between the university community and the wider local, national, and world communities.
 II. The rights of academic freedom and freedom of expression apply to the use 
of university computing resources. So, 
too, however, do 
the responsibilities and limitations associated with those rights
. The use of university computing 
resources, like 
the use of any other university
-provided resource and like any other university
-related activity, is 
subject to the requirements of legal, regulatory, and ethical behavior within the university community. Responsible 
use of a computing resource does not ex
tend to whatever is technically possible. Although some limitations are built 
into computer operating systems and networks, those limitations are not the sole restrictions on what is permissible. 
Users must abide by all applicable restrictions, whether or 
not they are built into the operating system or network 
and whether or not they can be circumvented by technical means.
 
                 
Responsible Use of University Computing 
and Network Resources
  University Policy
   Applies to:
 Faculty, staff, students, agents, 
suppliers/
contractors, volunteers, sponsored guests
 of 
academic and administrative units, and affiliated entities.
  The Ohio State University 
Œ University Policies 
policies.osu.edu/
 Page 
2 of 
5 III.
 Colleges, departments
, and units may have policies that provide for additional rights, responsibilities
, and/or 
limitations that augment 
this
 policy and apply to specific computers, computer systems, or networks, or to uses 
within their specific units. 
These policies require approval by the Chief Information Officer or the Chief 
Information Officer™s designe
es. Consult the operators or managers of the specific computer, computer system, or 
network or the management of the unit for further information. 
 IV.
 This policy 
covers
 use of university computing and network resources, regardless of location or device. 
  PROCEDURE
 Issued:
 05/10/2000
 Revised:
 02/01/
201
3 Reviewed:
 05/16/2016
  I. All users of university computing resources must:
 A. Comply with all federal, Ohio, and other applicable law; all generally applicable university rules
, policies
, and 
other governing docum
ents
; and all applicable contracts and licenses. 
 1. Examples of such laws, rules, policies, contracts, and licenses include: the Family Educational Rights and 
Privacy Act (FERPA); Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA); 
laws and regulations 
governing export
 control, which prohibit the electronic transmission of certain types of information to citizens 
of specified countries; laws governing 
libel
, privacy
, copyright
, trademark
, obscenity, and child pornogra
phy; the 
Electronic Communications Privacy Act
 and the 
Com
puter Fraud and Abuse Act
, which prohibit hacking, 
and similar activities; 
the Americans With Disabilities Act as reflected in the 
Web Accessibility Policy
; Code 
of Student Condu
ct; 
Sexual 
Misconduct 
Policy
; Institutional Data Policy
; Disclosure or Exposure of Personal 
Information Policy
; and all applicable software licenses. 
 2. Users who engage in electronic communications with persons in other states or countries or on other systems 
or networks should be aware they may also 
be subject to the laws of those other states and countries and the 
rules and policies of those other systems and networks. Users are responsible for ascertaining, understanding, 
and complying with the laws, rules, policies, contracts, and licenses applicab
le to their particular uses.
 B. Use only those computing resources they are authorized to use and use them only in the manner and to 
the extent authorized.
 Ability to access computing resources does not, by itself, imply authorization to do so. 
Users are resp
onsible for ascertaining what authorizations are necessary and for obtaining them before 
proceeding. 
 C. Respect the privacy of other users and their accounts, regardless of whether those accounts are securely 
protected.
 Ability to access other persons' accou
nts does not, by itself, imply authorization to do so. Users are 
responsible for ascertaining what authorizations are necessary and for obtaining them before proceeding.
 D. Respect the finite capacity of the computing resources and limit use so as not to cons
ume an unreasonable 
amount of those resources or to interfere unreasonably with the activity of other users.
 Although there are 
no set bandwidths, disk space, CPU time, or other limitations applicable to all uses of university computing 
resources, the univ
ersity may require users of those computing resources to limit or refrain from specific uses in 
accordance with this principle, using only those resources authorized for use. The reasonableness of any 
particular use will be judged by the university in the 
context of the relevant circumstances.
 E. Refrain from using those resources for personal commercial purposes or for personal financial or other 
gain.
 Personal use of university computing resources for other purposes is permitted when it does not consume 
a significant amount of those resources, does not interfere with the performance of the user's job or other 
university responsibilities, and is otherwise in compliance with this policy. Further limits may be imposed upon 

personal use in accordance with normal 
supervisory procedures or as a matter of college, department
, or unit 
policy.
 
                 
Responsible Use of University Computing 
and Network Resources
  University Policy
   Applies to:
 Faculty, staff, students, agents, 
suppliers/
contractors, volunteers, sponsored guests
 of 
academic and administrative units, and affiliated entities.
  The Ohio State University 
Œ University Policies 
policies.osu.edu/
 Page 
3 of 
5 F. Refrain from stating or implying that they speak on behalf of the university and from using university 
trademarks and logos without authorization to do so.
 Affiliation with the u
niversity does not, by itself, 
imply authorization to speak on behalf of the university. This also extends to the use of social media. 
Authorization to use university trademarks and logos on university computing resources may be granted only by 
University Communications
 or 
Trademark and Licensing
, as appropriate. Contact these offices for further 
information and authorization.
 G. FAQs regarding this policy 
(see Resources section) are provided for additional clarification and are 
incorporated by reference as part of this policy.
 II. Security and Privacy
 A. The university employs various measures to protect the security of its computing resources and of their users' 

accounts. Users should be aware that the university cannot guarantee such security. Users should engage in 
"safe computing" practices by establishing appropriate access restrictions for their accounts, guarding their 
passwords, and changing them regularly.
 Accounts and passwords may not be shared with, or used by, persons 
other than those to whom they have been assigned by the university.
  B. While the university does not routinely monitor individual usage of its computing resources, the university may 
specifi
cally monitor the activity and access the accounts of individual users of university computing resources, 
including individual login sessions and communications, without notice, when:
 1. The user has given permission or has voluntarily made them accessible to the public, for example by 

posting to a publicly
-accessible web page or providing publicly
-accessible network services. 
 2. It reasonably appears necessary to do so to protect the integr
ity, security, or functionality of the university 
or other computing resources or to protect the university from liability.
 3. There is reasonable cause to believe the user has violated, or is violating, this policy.
 4. An account appears to be engaged in unusua
l or unusually excessive activity, as indicated by the reviewing 
of general activity and usage patterns.
 5. Access is necessary and conducted pursuant to applicable university rules, policies or procedures.  
 6. It is otherwise required or permitted by law.
 Any 
such individual monitoring, other than that specified above, required by law, or necessary to respond to 
perceived emergency situations, must be authorized in  advance by the 
Chief Information Officer or the Chief 
Information Officer's designees (see Conta
cts section below).
 C. Users should be aware the use of university computing resources may not be private. For example, the normal 
operation and maintenance of the university's computing resources require the backup and caching of data and 
communications, log
ging of activity, reviewing of general usage patterns for the unauthorized disclosure of 
institutional data, scanning of systems and network ports for anomalies and vulnerabilities, and other such 
activities that are necessary to render service or to meet 
university legal obligations 
 D. The university, in its discretion, may disclose the results of any such general or individual monitoring, including 

the contents and records of individual communications, to appropriate university personnel or law enforcement 
agencies and may use those results in university disciplinary proceedings. Communications made by means of 
university computing resources are also generally subject to Ohio's Public Records Act to the same extent as 
they would be if made on paper.
 III.
 Enforcem
ent
 A. Users who violate this policy may be denied access to university computing resources and may be subject to 
other penalties and disciplinary action, both within and outside of the university. Violations will normally be 
handled through the university di
sciplinary procedures applicable to the relevant user. For example, alleged 
violations by students will normally be investigated, and any penalties or other discipline will normally be 
imposed, by the Office of Student Conduct. 
 B. The university may temporar
ily suspend or block access to an account, prior to the initiation or completion of 
such disciplinary procedures, when it reasonably appears necessary to do so to protect the integrity, security, or 

                 
Responsible Use of University Computing 
and Network Resources
  University Policy
   Applies to:
 Faculty, staff, students, agents, 
suppliers/
contractors, volunteers, sponsored guests
 of 
academic and administrative units, and affiliated entities.
  The Ohio State University 
Œ University Policies 
policies.osu.edu/
 Page 
4 of 
5 functionality of university or other computing resources 
or to protect the university from liability. The 
university may also refer suspected violations of applicable law to appropriate law enforcement agencies.
  Responsibilities
 Position
 or Office
 Responsibilities
 Office of the 
 Chief Information Officer 
(OCIO)
 1. Manage policy inquiries.
 2. Review and respond to requests for approval of unit policies.
 3. Coordinate prior authorization for investigatory monitoring.
 4. Manage policy enforcement. 
 Colleges, VP units and 
regional campuses
 1. Comply with 
applicable laws; this 
policy
; university rules
, policies, 
and other governing documents; 
contracts
; and licenses.
 2. Seek approval from the OCIO for any governing document related to university computing and 

network resources.
 3. Work with the OCIO and coordinating university offices on policy enforcement. 
 4. Confer with the OCIO to designate specified individual within areas to handle monitoring authorization 
requests.
 5. Contact the 
chief 
information 
officer or the 
chief 
information 
officer™s designees to req
uest 
investigatory monitoring.
 6. Issue corrective action as appropriate under 
university
 policies.
 Faculty, staff, students 
and other users of 
university computing 
resources
 1. Ascertain, understand, and c
omply with 
applicable laws; this 
policy, university rules
, policies, 
and 
other governing documents; 
contracts
; and licenses.
 2. Ascertain, understand, and c
omply with applicable 
unit
 policies.
 3. Use only those computing resources you are authorized to use and only in the 
manner and extent 
authorized.
 4. Respect the privacy of other users and their accounts.
 5. Limit 
use so as not interfere unreasonably with the activities of other users
. 6. Refrain from using university resources for personal commercial purposes or for personal fin
ancial or 
other gain.
 Office of Legal Affairs
 Provide advice and legal oversight when applicable.
 Office of Human 
Resources
 1. Provide guidance related to 
university policies issued by the Office of 
Human Resources.
 2. Conduct fact
-finding investigations and 
issue findings and action steps.
 3. Issue corrective action as appropriate.
  Resources
 University Policies, 
policies.osu.edu/
 Web Accessibility policy
, ada.osu.edu/resources/osu
-web
-accessibility
-policy.pdf
 Disclosure or Exposure of Personal Information
 policy
, ocio.osu.edu/assets/Policies/disclosurepolicy.pdf
 Institutional Data 
policy,
 go.osu.edu/idp
-document
  Public Records policy, 
compliance.
osu.edu/PublicRecordsPolicy.pdf
  Sexual 
Misconduct
 Policy, 
hr.osu.edu/policy/policy115.pdf
  Cloud Computing Guidelines, 
ocio.osu.edu/assets/Policies/ccgV7.pdf
 FAQ for 
Responsible Use of University Computing and Network Resources, 
ocio.osu.edu/policy/policies/responsible
-use/faq
 Federal Export Control Regulations, 
orc.osu.edu/regulations
-poli
cies/exportcontrol/
 FERPA,
 ocio.osu.edu/policy/policies/regulations/
 HIPAA, 
ocio.osu.edu/policy/policies/regulations/
 Information Security
, ocio.osu.edu/itsecurity
 
                 
Responsible Use of University Computing 
and Network Resources
  University Policy
   Applies to:
 Faculty, staff, students, agents, 
suppliers/
contractors, volunteers, sponsored guests
 of 
academic and administrative units, and affiliated entities.
  The Ohio State University 
Œ University Policies 
policies.osu.edu/
 Page 
5 of 
5 Office of Trademark and Licensing, 
trademarklicensing.osu.edu/
 Office of University Communications, 
ucom.osu.edu/
 Ohio Public Records Act, 
compliance.osu.edu/public
-records/
  Virtual Legality: An Overview of Your Rights and Responsibilities in Cyberspace,
 ocio.osu.edu/policy/policies/responsible
-use/virtual
-legality/
  Contacts
 Subject
 Office
 Telephone
 E-mail/URL
 Policy 
questions, 
authorization 
for 
investigatory 
monitoring
 Office of the Chief Information Officer, Director, Information 
Technology, 
Risk Management, and Governance
 614-292-1508 ITPolicy@osu.edu
 Academic 
issues
 Office of Academic Affairs
 614-292-5881 oaa.osu.edu
 Legal issues
 Office of Legal Affairs
 614-292-0611 legal.osu.edu
 Corrective 
action
 Office of 
Human Resources, Employee and Labor Relations
 614-292-2800 ohrc@hr.osu.edu
 hr.osu.edu/elr
  History
 Issued:
 05/10/2000
 Revised:
 02/01/2013
 Edited:
 01/25/2016
 Reviewed:
 05/16/2016
 
