  A campus of The California State University 
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
 _   Office of the Academic Senate
   Ł  One Washington Square   
Ł  San Jose, California 95192-0024
   
Ł   408-924-2440   
Ł   Fax: 408-924-2451
                         S02-8  At its meeting of May 13, 2002, the Academic Senate passed the following Policy 
Recommendation presented by Ken Peter for the Executive Committee. 
 POLICY RECOMMENDATION 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESOU
RCES RESPONSIBLE USE POLICY  
 Whereas: The CSU requires each campus to have a policy on responsible use of information technology 
resources and SJSU does not currently have such a policy, and 
Whereas: Appropriate use of campus technolog
y resources is crucial to course delivery, 
communication, administrative activities, and delivery of employee and student services, thus 
necessitating responsible usage of the technol
ogy, and policies and procedures to avoid misuse, and Whereas: The University Information Technology Bo
ard drafted an acceptable use policy to present to 
the Executive Committee who now forward the 
policy to the Academic Senate for its 
consideration; therefore be it Resolved: That we acknowledge and thank Cal Poly 
San Luis Obispo for providing us the framework 
for the policy, be it further 
Resolved: That the following Information Technology
 Resources Responsible Use Policy be adopted 
and implemented as soon as possible, but no 
later than August 24, 2002, be it further 
Resolved: That the policy be posted to the Univers
ity™s web page, as well as those of the University 
Computing & Telecommunications and Academ
ic Technology units, with conventional 
indexing techniques that include keywords such as ﬁacceptable 
useﬂ to facilitate search and 
retrieval, be it further Resolved: That all departments, colleges and divisions
 be given copies of the policy and encouraged to 
add a link to their web site where appropriate 
so that users of campus technology resources 
will have ready access to the policy, be it finally  
Resolved: That the Information Technology Board be
 charged with drafting general guidelines to assist 
the campus in implementing and complying with
 this policy and forwarding to the Senate 
those guidelines for Senate appr
oval via the Executive Committee. 
 
Information Technology Resources 
Responsible Use Policy Table of Contents A. Scope B. Purpose C. Guiding Principles D. Policy Application E. Policy Provisions 1.  Authorized Use/Access 2.  Data Security, Confidentiality and Privacy
 3.  Electronic Information Retention and Disclosure
 4.  Network and System Integrity
 5.  Commercial Use
 6.  Fraud 7.  Political Advocacy 8.  Harassment 9.  Copyright and Fair Use 10.  Trademark and Patents 11. Electronic Communications
 12.  Web Sites
 F. Policy Compliance
 G. Consequences of Non-Compliance
 H. Reporting Irresponsible or Inappropriate Use I. Policy Review and Practices Oversight  A. Scope This policy applies to any user of the University's information technology resources, 
whether initiated from a computer located on 
or off-campus. This includes any computer 
and information system or resource, includ
ing means of access, networks, and the data 
residing thereon. This policy applies to the use of all University information technology 
resources whether centrally-administered or locally-administered. Administrators of 
individual or dedicated University resources may enact additional policies or create 
2 
guidelines specific to those resources provided they do not conflict with the provisions of 
this and other official San José State University policies and laws. Users are subject to 
both the provisions of this policy and any policies specific to the individual systems they 
use.  In matters in which there is a discrepancy between local unit/or state and federal 
policy and this policy, the issues in dispute will be reviewed by the IT Board or during times where a quorum of the IT Board is 
not available, members of the Executive 
Committee may act for the IT Board. 
B. Purpose This policy is not intended to prevent or prohibit the sanctioned use of campus resources as required to meet SJSU
's core mission and academic and 
administrative purposes. The principal conc
ern of this responsible use policy is the effective and efficient use of information technology resources. The primary 
focus is to insure that the resources are 
used in a manner that does not impair or 
impede the use of these resources by othe
rs in their pursuit of the mission of the 
University. This policy is intended to ensure  1. the integrity, reliability, and good performance of University resources;  
2. that the resource-user community operates according to established 

policies and applicable laws;  
3. that these resources are used for their intended purposes; and  4. that appropriate measures are in pl
ace to assure the policy is honored. The policy is intended to permit, rather 
than proscribe, reasonable resource-user 
access within institutional priori
ties and financial capabilities.  
This policy is intended to promote 
and encourage responsible use while minimizing the potential for misuse and not
 imposing broad-based restrictions on 
all users. Users of IT resources should consult the resource provider for any additional guidelines and limitations th
at may be in place for the unit or 
associated organization, eg. Library, Housing, Associated Students, etc.   C. Guiding Principles
 The following principles underlie this policy and should guide its application and interpretation: 
1. Freedom of thought, inquiry, and expressi
on is a paramount value of the SJSU 
community. To preserve that freedom, the 
community relies on the integrity and 
responsible use of University resources by each of its members. 
2. The President is ultimately responsible fo
r implementation of this policy, but may 
delegate this responsibility.  For any policy issue relating to this policy the President should seek consultation with the Academic Senate. 
3 
3. Information technology resources are provi
ded to support the University's mission 
of education, research and service. To
 ensure that these shared and finite resources are used effectively to further the University's mission, each user has 
the responsibility to:  
a. use the resources appropriately and efficiently;  
b. respect the freedom and privacy of others;  

c. protect the stability and secu
rity of the resources; and  d. understand and fully abide by established University policies and applicable public laws. 
4. Responsible use of University resources will be given priority over the current or potential design, capability or functionality of specific information technology resources including operating systems, ha
rdware, software, and the Internet. 
5. Users of information technology resources
 are expected to uphold the highest academic standards in accordance with the 
Students Rights and Responsibilities Policy (S90-5), Academic Freedom and Professional Responsibilities (S99-8)
, Privacy of Electronic Informa
tion and Communications (F97-7), and other applicable University policies and practices.  
D. Policy Application  As a general guideline, the institution regards the principle of academic freedom to be a 
key factor in assuring the effective application of this 
policy and its procedures and practices. State and federal laws must also 
be considered. The University's role in 
supporting or acting to enforce such law is also 
critical to how this policy will be applied.  
1. All existing laws (
federal, state and local) and State of California, California State University and SJSU regulations and policies apply, including not only laws and regulations that are specific to computers and networks, but also those that may 
apply generally to personal conduct. This may also include laws of other states 
and countries where material is accessed el
ectronically via University resources 
by users within those jurisdictions or material originating within those 
jurisdictions is accessed via University resources. 
2. The accessibility of certain University information technology resources, such as 

network-based services, implies a degree of
 risk that the existence, viewing or 
receipt of such informati
on/content may be offensive.
 As a matter of policy, the 
University protects expression by members of its community and does not wish to 
become an arbiter of what may be rega
rded as "offensive" by some members of 

the community. However, in exceptional 
cases, the University may decide that 
such material directed at 
individuals or classes of individuals presents such a hostile environment under the la
w that certain restrictive actions are warranted.  3. The University reserves the right to limit access to its resources when policies or 

laws are violated and to us
e appropriate means to safeguard its resources, preserve 
network/system integrity, and ensure conti
nued service delivery at all times. This 
4 
includes monitoring routing information 
of communications across its network services and transaction 
records residing on University resources, scanning systems attached to the SJSU networ
k for security problems, disconnecting 
systems that have become a security
 hazard, and restricting the material 
transported across the network or posted on University systems. This level of 
action is considered one of
 last resort and would be imposed only when other 
means of remedy are unsuccessful or are pr
evented due to timing constraints. If 
possible, the University will 
give notification to the affected units of a shutdown 
and give reasons why the shutdown has occurred.  These types of actions will be 

reported to the University IT Board each semester for its review. Appeals in 
writing will be considered by the University Information Technology Board or, in 
summer, the Executive Committee of the Senate. 
4. Hyperlinks within the policy to external
 documents are provided for the reference 
and convenience of readers. They should not be viewed as implying that the referenced document is being incorporated
 into this policy except as stated or otherwise specified in the policy itself. 
E. Policy Provisions This section is not intended to provide a full accounting of applicable laws and 

policies. Rather, it is intended to highlight major areas of concern with respect to 
responsible use of SJSU resources and specific issues required by law or CSU policy to be included. 1. Authorized Use / Access Access to SJSU's information technology 
resources is a privilege granted to faculty, staff and students in support of their studies, instruction, duties as employees, official business with the 
University, and/or other University-
sanctioned activities. Access may also be gr
anted to individuals outside of SJSU for purposes consistent with the mission of the University. 
With the exception of implicitly publicly accessible resources such as websites, 
access to SJSU information technology resources may not be transferred or 
extended by members of the University 
community to outside
 individuals or groups without prior approval of faculty, staff or administrator. Such access must 
be limited in nature and fall within the 
scope of the educational mission of the 
institution. The authorizing University official is expected to ensure that such access is not abused. Gaining access to the University's in
formation technology resources does not 
imply the right to use those resources. Th
e University reserves the right to limit, 
restrict, remove or extend access to and 
privileges within, material posted on, or 
communications via its information tec
hnology resources, consistent with this policy, applicable law or as the result of University disciplinary processes, and irrespective of the or
iginating access point. 5 
It is expected that these resources will be used efficiently and responsibly in support of the mission of the University as
 set forth in this policy. All other use not consistent with this policy may be considered unauthorized use.  
2. Data Security, Confidentiality and Privacy 
 SJSU users are responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and appropriate use of institutional data to which they are given access, ensuring the security of the 
equipment where such information is held
 or displayed, ensuring the security of any accounts issued in their name, and ab
iding by related privacy rights of students, faculty and staff concerning the use and release of personal information, 
as required by law or existing policies. Electronic mail and computer files are cons
idered private to the fullest extent 
permitted by law and University policy (
Privacy of Electronic Information and 
Communications Policy (F97-7). Access to such files 
will generally require permission of the sender/recipient of a 
message or the owner of the account in 
which the material resides, court orde
r, or other actions defined by law or University policy. However, in the event of a sanctioned University investigation 

for alleged misconduct, e-mail or files ma
y be locked or copied to prevent 
destruction and loss of information. User
s may employ methods to increase the 
privacy of their files, provided they do not violate any provision of this policy or degrade system/network performance. 
All users of SJSU's information technology 
resources are advised to consider the open nature of information disseminate
d electronically, and should not assume 
any degree of privacy or restricted access to such information. SJSU strives to 
provide the highest degree of security when transferring data, but cannot be held responsible if these measur
es are circumvented and information is intercepted, 
copied, read, forged, destroyed or misused by others. 
3. Electronic Information Retention and Disclosure
 Original electronic materials on central 
computing equipment and/or copies may 
be retained for specified periods of tim
e on system backups and other locations; however the University does not warrant that such information can be retrieved.  
Unless otherwise required by law and/or policy, SJSU reserves the right to delete stored files and messages to preserve sy
stem integrity. Except in an emergency, 
users will be given ample advance notice, taking the academic year calendar into 
account, to save any personal files and messages. 
Electronic files or messages, whether or
 not created and stored on University resources, may constitute a University record subject to disclosure under the California Public Records Act or other laws
, or as a result of litigation. Electronic 
copies must be provided in response to a 
public record request or legally issued subpoena, subject to very limited exceptions
, as with other documents created and 
retained by the University. 6 
Disclosure of confidential information to 
unauthorized persons or entities, or the use of such information for self-interest 
or advantage, is prohibited. Access to non-public institutional data by unauthorized
 persons or entities is prohibited. 
Requests for disclosure of confidential information and retention of potential 
evidence will be honored when approved by authorized University officials or 
required by state or federal law.  4. Network and System Integrity
 In accordance with 
California State Penal Code Section 502, CSU's 4Cnet 
Acceptable Use Policy and other policies and laws, 
activities and behaviors that threaten the integrity of computer ne
tworks or systems are prohibited on both 
University-owned and privately-owned equipment operated on or through 
University resources. These activities a
nd behaviors include, but are not limited 
to:  1. Intentional or careless interference with
 or disruption of computer systems 
and networks and related services, including but not limited to the 
propagation of computer "worms," 
"viruses" and "Trojan Horses" and other activities that could have a negative impact on the SJSU computing 
environment in the judgment of the Associate Vice President, University 

Computing and Telecommunications or designee. 
2. Intentionally or carelessly performing 
an act that places an excessive load 
on a computer or network to the exte
nt that other users may be denied 
service or the use of el
ectronic networks or information systems may be 
disrupted  3. Failure to comply with authorized 
requests from designated University 
officials to discontinue activities that 
threaten the operation or integrity of computers, systems or networks  
4. Negligently or intentionally reveal
ing passwords or otherwise permitting 
the use by others of University-assigned accounts for computer and 
network access. Individual password s
ecurity is the responsibility of each 
user. The user is responsible for all uses of their accounts, independent of authorization. 5. Altering or attempting to alter files 
or systems without authorization  
6. Unauthorized scanning of ports, computers and networks  7. Unauthorized attempts to circumvent
 data protection schemes or uncover 

security vulnerabilities 8. Connecting unauthorized equipment to 
the campus network or computers. 
University authorized business and other activities directly related to the 
academic mission of the University are excluded. 
9. Attempting to alter any University 
computing or network components, 

including but not limited to br
idges, routers, hubs, wiring, and 7 
connections, without authorization or beyond one's level of authorization 
as designated by the administrator res
ponsible for that equipment, ie. the 
Associate Vice President, University Computing and 
Telecommunications, or unit Dean or designee. 
10. Utilizing network or system identification numbers or names that are not 

assigned for one's specific use on the designated system  
11. Using campus resources to gain una
uthorized access to any computer 
system and/or using someone else's 
computer without their permission  
12. Providing services or accounts on University computers or via University 
networks to other users from a persona
l computer unless required to meet 
the normal activities of students working 
as individuals or in collaborative groups to fulfill current course requirements. University authorized 
business and other activities directly 
related to the academic mission of the 
University, are also excluded.  13. Registering a SJSU IP address with any other domain name for other than 
university business.  5. Commercial Use
 Use of the University's information tec
hnology resources is strictly prohibited for unauthorized commercial activities, personal gain, and private, or otherwise unrelated to the University, business or fundraising. This includes soliciting, promoting, selling, marketing or advertisi
ng products or services, or reselling University resources.  Campus auxiliary organizations are authori
zed to provide services and products to students, faculty and staff, and invited guests of the University through operating 
and service support leases. The University President or designee may authorize 
additional limited commercial uses under 
separate policy provisions. Such uses are excepted from the above prohibitions. 
These prohibitions are not intended to infringe on authorized uses that enable students, staff and faculty to carry out their duties and assignments in support of the University mission. 
6. Fraud Use of University information technology 
resources for purposes of perpetrating fraud in any form is strictly prohibite
d. Fraudulent activities include but are not limited to sending any fraudulent electronic
 transmission, fraudulent requests for 
confidential information and fraudulent 
submission and/or authorization of 
electronic purchase requisitions.  7. Political Campaigns:
 California Government Code 8314 prohibits 
the use of state resources for major 
political campaign activity.  This provision does not apply to political activities related to on-campus student government, including the conduct of student 

elections, or student club activities and sponsored events conducted with prior 8 
approval of the University. It does not apply to individual student activities, e.g., websites, which constitute free speech. It does not apply to incidental and minimal 
use of state resources.  Such activities mu
st comply with all other provisions of 
this policy, including the section on electronic communicatio
ns, when using University resources. 8. Harassment
 Harassment of others via electr
onic methods is prohibited under 
California State Penal Code Section 653m, other applicable laws and University policies. It is a violation of this policy to use electronic means to harass, threaten, or otherwise 

cause harm to a specific individual(s), whet
her by direct or indirect reference. It 
may be a violation of this policy to use 
electronic means to harass or threaten 
groups of individuals by creating a hostile environment.  
9. Copyright and Fair Use Federal copyright law applies to all forms of in
formation, including electronic 
communications, and violations are prohibited under this policy. Infringements of 
copyright laws include, but are not limite
d to, making unauthorized copies of any 
copyrighted material (incl
uding software, computer code, text, images, audio, and 
video), and displaying or distributing copyrighted materials over computer 
networks without the author's permissi
on except as provided in limited form by 
copyright fair use restrictions. The "fai
r use" provision of the copyright law allows for limited reproduction and di
stribution of published works without permission for such purposes as critic
ism, news reporting, teaching (including 
multiple copies for classroom use), scholarship, or research. The University will 

not tolerate academic dishonesty (s98-1)
 or theft of intell
ectual property in any form.  
10. Trademarks and Patents 
 Student, faculty and staff use of Univer
sity information technology resources in 
the creation of inventions and other intellectual property that may be patented, 
trademarked or licensed for commercial pur
poses must be consistent with SJSU's 
Intellectual Property Policy (F98-3). Unauthorized use of patents, trade secrets and trademarked names or symbols is 
prohibited. Use of SJSU's name and 
symbols must comply with University policy.  
11. Electronic Communications
 University electronic communications are to
 be used to enhance and facilitate teaching, learning, scholarly research, support 
academic experiences, to facilitate 
the effective business and administrative processes of the University, and to foster 

effective communications within the acad
emic community. Electronic mail, news 
posts, chat sessions or any other form of electronic communication must comply 
with SJSU's Privacy of Electronic Informati
on and Communications Policy (F97-7).   9 
12. Web Sites
 An official SJSU web page is one that is formally acknowledged by the chief 
officer of a University department or 
division as representing that entity 
accurately and in a manner consistent
 with SJSU's mission. Without such 
acknowledgment, a web site, regardless of cont
ent, is not "official." Official pages are the property and responsibility of the divisions that create them and follow the 
University Web Style Guide and University Logo Guidelines
  "Unofficial" information may also be 
posted and maintained by individual 
students, faculty, staff and student organizations. SJSU does not undertake to edit, screen, monitor, or censor information 
posted by unofficial authors, whether or not originated by unofficial authors or 
third parties, and does not accept any 
responsibility or liability for such information even when it is conveyed through 
University-owned servers.  
Both official and unofficial web sites are subject to the other provisions of this policy if they use University resources such as University-owned servers and the 
SJSU network to transmit and receive information. 
F. Policy Compliance The University Information Technology Board is
 authorized by the President to ensure that the appropriate processes to administer the policy ar
e in place, communicated and 
followed by the University community. The President or designee will ensure that 
suspected violations and resultant actions receive the proper and immediate attention of 
the appropriate University officials, 
law enforcement, outside agencies, and 
disciplinary/grievance processes in accordance with due process. The President or designee will inform users about the policy; receive and respond to 

complaints; collect and secure evidence as requi
red; advise and assist University offices on the interpretation, investigation and enforcement of th
is policy; consult with University Legal Counsel on matters involving 
interpretation of law, campus policy, or requests from outside law enforcement agencies and/or legal counsel; and maintain a 
record of each incident and its resolution to inform future policy changes. G. Consequences of Non-Compliance Enforcement will be based upon receipt by University Computing and 

Telecommunications of one or more formal
 complaints about a specific incident 
or through discovery of a possible violation in the normal course of administering 
information technology resources.  
First offense and minor infractions of
 this policy, when accidental or unintentional, such as consuming excessi
ve resources or overloading computer systems, are generally resolved informa
lly by the unit administering the resource. 
This may be done through e-mail or 
in-person discussion and education. Repeated offenses and serious incidents of non-compliance may lead to University 
disciplinary action under CSU and University disciplinary policies and procedures for 10 
students and employees, employee contract pr
ovisions where appropriate, private civil 
action, and/or criminal charges. Serious in
cidents of non-compliance include but are not limited to unauthorized use of computer res
ources, attempts to stea
l passwords or data, 
unauthorized use or copying of licensed software, repeated harassment, or threatening 
behavior.  In addition to the above, inappropriate use of information technology resources may 
result in personal criminal, civ
il and other administrative liability. 
Appeals of University actions resulting from
 enforcement of this policy will be handled 
through existing disciplinary/grievance processes for SJSU students and employees. H. Reporting Irresponsible or Inappropriate Use
 The President or designee is responsible for 
reviewing violations of this policy and will act in accordance with campus policies and guide
lines for investigations and resolution of 
problems.  Suspected infractions of this 
policy should be reported to University 
Computing and Telecommunications at 
nettel@sjsu.edu.  Any employee may report a violation of this 
policy. The infraction must be reported to 
their immediate superior who may take thos
e actions that are appropriate under this policy.  There might be situations when the 
following additional offices/officials should 
be notified of suspected violations when filing a complaint:  
o Supervisors, Department Heads, Deans, Program Administrators and/or one of the following offices if the incident occurs in the course of employment with 
the University:  
Human Resources - (408) 924-2250 Faculty Affairs
  - (408) 924-2450 o Student Records - (408) 924-2550 - If the incident involves inappropriate use of SJSU student information. The Records O
ffice is responsible for investigating reports of Family Educational Rights a
nd Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA) violations and maintain
ing records for the Department of Education.  
o Judicial Affairs Œ (408) 924-5985 - If the incident involves student misconduct. 
o University Computing and Telecommunications Œ (408) 924-2340 - If the incident involves inappropriate access to or use of institutional data.  
o SJSU University Police 
- 911 for emergencies - If an individual's health and 
safety appears to be in jeopardy or a violation of law may be
 involved, or (408) 
924-2223 for non-emergency situations.  
I. Policy Review and Practices Oversight
  The President or designee is responsible for application and enforcement of this 
policy. The University Information Tec
hnology Board shall review this policy on an annual basis or as the need arises, ma
ke recommendations for any changes, and 
11 
provide oversight and periodic review of the practices used to implement this 
policy. Recommended changes shall be reviewed and approved by the President 
or designee in consultation with the Academic Senate. The current version of the 
policy will be posted and maintained on the 
SJSU web site. A printed copy will be 
available at the University Library Reference Desk. The committee chair will 
make an annual written report to the 
Senate reporting actions of the committee 
taken throughout the year.  ACTION BY UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT:  APPROVED BY PRESIDENT 
ROBERT CARET ON JUNE 5, 2002. 
  
   
   
   
   
     
  12 
