Policies & Procedures
Home
 È UC Irvine Administrative Policies and Procedures
 È Policies
 È Sec. 714-18: Computer and Network Use
Policy
UC IRVINE ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Business and Financial Affairs
Computing and Information Systems
Sec. 714-18: Computer and Network Use Policy
Responsible Administrator:
 Assistant Vice Chancellor - Information Technology 
Revised: September 2011
References / Resources
Federal Electronic Communication and Privacy Act of 1986
California Penal Code, Section 502
 (computer crime)
University of California
Electronic Communications Policy
Faculty Code of Conduct
Guidelines for Sexual Harassment Complaint Resolution
Policies Applying to Campus Activities, Organizations, and Students
Policy and Guidelines on the Reproduction of Copyrighted Materials for Teaching and Research
UCI Administrative Policies & Procedures
Computing and Information Systems
Section 714-15
, Policy on Access to University Administrative Information Systems
Section 714-16
, Procedures for Accessing University Administrative Information Systems
Section 714-17
, Using University Administrative Information Systems
Information Access and Disclosure
Section 720-10
, Information from Public Records (California Public Records Act) - Guidelines
Section 720-11
, Privacy of and Access to Information (Excluding Student Records) - Guidelines
Section 720-12
, Student and Student Applicant Records - Guidelines
Electronic Communications
Section 800-10
, Telecommunications System Guidelines
Section 800-12
, Data Communication Systems Guidelines
Section 800-13
, UCInet GuidelinesSection 800-15
, UCI Guidelines for the UC Electronic Communications Policy
Section 800-16
, World Wide Web Policy
Section 800-17
, UCI Implementation Guidelines for NotiÞcation in Instances of Security Breaches Involving Personal Information Data
Section 800-18
, Security Guidelines for Computers and Devices Connected to UCInet
Section 800-20
, ZotMail Guidelines
UCI Principles of Community
Contact
: OfÞce of Information Technology (OIT) at (949) 824-2222 or 
oit@uci.edu
The University of California, Irvine (UCI) provides computing resources and worldwide network access to

members of the UCI electronic community for legitimate academic and administrative pursuits to communicate
and to retrieve and disseminate information. All members of the UCI community (faculty, staff, students, and
authorized guests) sharing these resources also share the rights and responsibilities for their use.
A. Rights and Responsibilities
Worldwide, open access electronic communication is a privilege and continued access requires that users act
responsibly. Users should be able to trust that the products of their intellectual efforts will be safe from violation,
destruction, theft, or other abuse. Users sharing computing resources must respect and value the rights and
privacy of others, respect the integrity of the systems and related physical resources, and observe all relevant
laws, regulations, and contractual obligations. Users are responsible for refraining from acts, intentional or
inadvertent, that obstruct the access of others to these resources, waste limited resources, harm resources or
information, or violate the rights of others.
To help protect computer and network resourcesÞles, users are responsible for setting passwords appropriately,
and for keeping passwords conÞdential by not giving them to another person, and for following other appropriate
security procedures. Personal equipment accessing the network must conform to 
Section 800-18
, Security
Guidelines for Computers and Devices Connected to UCInet. In particular, personal computers must have
current security patches applied and the appropriate security software (e.g., anti-virus protection) properly
functioning. 
Guidance on appropriate security measures
 may be obtained from OIT or an administrative
Information Security Coordinator
. Users connecting equipment to the network which threaten the security of the
network or other systems by failing to follow this guidance may have their ability to connect equipment to the
network suspended.
Most UCI owned computers are under the control of system administrators or managers, who are required to
respect the privacy of computer system users. However, they may access user Þles or suspend services on the
systems they manage without notice as required to protect the integrity of computer systems or to examine
accounts that are suspected of unauthorized use or of having been misused, corrupted or damaged. This
includes temporarily locking vulnerable accounts, removing hung jobs, reprioritizing resource-intensive jobs, etc.
In addition to campus and UC policies such as the Electronic Communications Policy, many UCI departments
have their own computing and networking resources and policies. When accessing computing resources, users
are responsible for obeying both the policies described here and relevant departmental policies. Students are
also responsible for obeying the policies described in the 
UC Policies Applying to Campus Activities,
Organizations, and Students
. In addition, all users are responsible for obeying policies of off-campus network
services accessed using UCI resources.
B. Examples of Misuse
Examples of misuse include, but are not limited to:
Knowingly running, installing, or giving to another user, any program on any computer system or network with
the intended purpose of damaging or placing excessive load on a computer system or network used by
others. This includes, but is not limited to, computer viruses, Trojan horses, worms, bots, spamming, and
password cracking programs.
Attempting to circumvent data protection schemes or uncover security loopholes without prior written consent
of the appropriate authority. This includes creating and/or running programs that are designed to identify
security loopholes and/or intentionally decrypt secure data.

Using computers, electronic mail or any other form of computer network based communication to act
abusively toward others or to provoke a violent reaction, such as stalking, acts of bigotry, threats of violence,
or other hostile or intimidating "Þghting words." Such words include those terms widely recognized to victimize
or stigmatize individuals on the basis of race, ethnicity, religion, sex, sexual orientation, disability, and other
protected characteristics.
Posting on electronic bulletin boards, Web pages, or any other computer network based dissemination
channel, any materials that violate University policy or codes of conduct.
Attempting to monitor or tamper with another user's electronic communications or reading, copying, changing,
or deleting another user's Þles or software without the explicit agreement of the owner.
Violating copyright laws or restrictions.
Violating terms of applicable software licensing agreements.
Using campus networks to gain, or attempt to gain, unauthorized access to any computer system.
Using a computer account or obtaining a password without appropriate authorization.
Facilitating or allowing use of a computer account, password, and/or network access or resources by any
unauthorized person.
Employing, either directly or by implication, a false identity when using an account or other electronic
resources. This includes sending unauthorized mail that appears to come from someone else as well as
posting or otherwise disseminating materials which misrepresent the identity of the sender.
Disguising, misrepresenting, or concealing the identity of a computer system connected to the network.
Performing an act without authorization that will interfere with the normal operation of computers, networks, or
peripherals, or will interfere with others' ability to make use of such resources.
Using an account for any activity that is commercial in nature not related to work at UCI, such as consulting
services, typing services, developing software for sale, advertising products, and/or other commercial
enterprises for personal Þnancial gain.
Distributing, posting, or otherwise making available to those not authorized any conÞdential, sensitive, or
private information.
C. Consequences of Misuse
Misuse of computing, networking, or information is unacceptable, and users will be held accountable for their
conduct. Serious infractions can result in temporary or permanent loss of computing and/or network privileges
and/or Federal or State legal prosecution. Appropriate corrective action or discipline may be taken in
conformance with applicable personnel policies, student policies, collective bargaining agreements, and
procedures established by the Academic Senate. (In extreme cases, corrective action may include dismissal.)
California Penal Code, Section 502
 makes certain computer abuses a crime, (such as illegal reproduction of
software protected by U. S. copyright law) and penalties can include a Þne and/or imprisonment. Files may be
subject to search under proper authorization.
Minor infractions of this policy, such as poorly chosen passwords, use of resources in a manner which impedes
but does not totally block their use by others are typically handled internally to the department in an informal

manner. More serious infractions such as abusive behavior, account invasion or destruction, attempting to
circumvent system security, etc. are handled formally through the OfÞce of the Dean of Students or by other
appropriate ofÞcials.
D. Contact Information
For additional information contact 
OfÞce of Information Technology (OIT)
 at (949) 824-2222 or 
oit@uci.edu
.© 2018 UC RegentsAdministrative Policies &
Procedures 
239 MSTB, Irvine CA
92697 Zot Code 1130 
(949) 824-8713

