 (https://www.unr.edu)
 (/)GET HELP (/GET-HELP/)
VIEW MY REQUESTS
 (HTTPS://UNR.TEAMDYNAMIX.COM/TDCLIENT/REQUESTS/TICKETREQUESTS/)
Search the OIT Website
SEARCHHome (/) >About OIT (/about-oit/)
 >Policies
 (/about-oit/policies/)
>Computing and Network Use Agreement
 (/about-oit/policies/computing-and-network-use-agreement/)
>Security Awareness and Acceptable Use Policy
Security Awareness and Acceptable Use
Policy
Overview
The computing resources at the University of Nevada, Reno (UNR) support the educational, instructional,
research and administrative activities of the University and the use of these resources are a privilege
extended to members of the University community. As a user of these services and facilities, users have
access to valuable University resources, to sensitive data, and to internal and external networks.
Consequently, users of UNR computing resources are expected at all times to behave in a responsible,
ethical and legal manner.
Purpose

This Security Awareness and Acceptable Use Policy establishes specific requirements for the use of all
computing and networking resources at UNR. Individuals found to be in violation of this Acceptable Use
Policy may be subject to disciplinary action in accordance with the University's applicable disciplinary
policies.Users are also required to follow all federal, state and local laws governing information security and use of
computing resources, and to follow the University's Information Security Policies and Procedures (ISPP).
Scope
This policy applies to all users of computing resources owned or managed by UNR. Individuals covered
by this policy include, but are not limited to: employees, students, contractors, vendors, third parties and
guests accessing services through UNR's resources.
Computing resources includes all University owned, licensed, or managed hardware or so
!ware, and use
of the University network via a physical or wireless connection, regardless of the ownership of the
computer or device connected to the network.
These policies apply to technology administered in individual departments, the resources administered
by Information Technology, personally owned computers and devices connected by wire or
 wirelessly
 tothe campus network, and to o
"
-campus computers that connect remotely to the University's network.
Policy
Acceptable Use
1. You may only use the computers, accounts, and files for which you have been granted authorization
to use.
2. The University is bound by contractual and license agreements respecting third party resources; you
are expected to comply with all such agreements while using UNR's resources.
3. You must make reasonable e
"
ort to protect your passwords/credentials and to secure resources
against unauthorized use or access. You must configure hardware and so
!ware in a way that
reasonably prevents unauthorized users from accessing UNR's network and computing resources.
4.  You must comply with the policies and guidelines for any specific set of resources to which you
have been granted access. When other policies are more restrictive than this policy, the more
restrictive policy takes precedence.
5. Individual departments are responsible for creating guidelines concerning personal use of systems

and/or equipment. In the absence of such policies, in accordance with NRS 281A.400 limited use for
personal purposes is allowable if the use does not interfere with the performance of an employee's
duties, the cost and value related to use is nominal, and the use does not create the appearance of
impropriety or of endorsement by the University or Nevada System of Higher Education. If there is
any uncertainty, employees should consult their supervisor or manager.
 Security1. Users with access to data contained on UNR's systems that is classified as Confidential or Regulated
must take all necessary precautions to prevent unauthorized access to this information. Examples of
Confidential or Regulated Data include but are not limited to Federal Educational Rights and Privacy
Act (FERPA), Graham Leach
 Bliley
 Act (GLBA), proprietary, Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act (HIPAA), Payment Card Industry (PCI), and confidential research data.
2.  Employees should secure their workstations by logging o
" or locking when the host will be
unattended.
3.  Because information contained on portable devices is especially vulnerable, special care should be
exercised. Protect laptops in accordance with current security standards, including personal
firewalls.
4.  Postings by employees from a UNR email address to newsgroups should contain a disclaimer
stating that the opinions expressed are strictly their own and not necessarily those of UNR, unless
posting is in the course of business duties.
5.  All hardware used by the employee that is connected to the UNR network, whether owned by the
employee or by UNR, shall be continually executing approved virus- scanning so
!ware with a
current virus database.
6.  Employees must use extreme caution when opening e-mail attachments received from unknown
senders, which may contain viruses, e-mail bombs, or Trojan horse code and/or may be considered
"phishing".
 Prohibited Actions
The following activities are, in general, prohibited. Employees may be exempted from these restrictions
during the course of their legitimate job responsibilities (e.g., systems administration sta
" may have aneed to disable the network access of a host if that host is disrupting production services).
Under no circumstances is a user of UNR computing resources authorized to engage in any activity that is
illegal under local, state, federal or international law while utilizing UNR- owned or managed resources.

The list below is by no means exhaustive, but provides a framework for activities which fall into the
category of prohibited actions.
1. Violating the rights of any person or company protected by copyright, trade secret, patent or other
intellectual property, or similar laws or regulations, including, but not limited to, the installation or
distribution of "pirated" or other so
!ware products that are not appropriately licensed for use by
UNR.2.  All users must comply with the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA). Unauthorized copying of
copyrighted material including, but not limited to, digitizing and distributing of photographs from
magazines, books or other copyrighted sources, copyrighted music, television or movies, and the
installing of any copyrighted so
!ware for which UNR or the end user does not have an active license
is strictly prohibited.
3.  The use of any University owned recording device such as, but not limited to, digital cameras, video
cameras, and cell phone cameras, on the University campus shall comply with NRS
396.970.Connecting network devices such as wireless access points or personal laptops into the
UNR network environment without proper authorization from Information Security.
4.  Exporting so
!ware, technical information, encryption so
!ware or technology, in violation of
international or regional export control laws, is illegal. Research Compliance should be consulted
prior to export of any material that is in question.
5.  Introduction of malicious programs into the network or server (e.g., viruses, worms, Trojan horses,
e-mail bombs, etc.).
6.  Revealing your account password to others or allowing use of your account by others. This includes
family and other household members when work is being done at home.
7. Using a UNR computing asset to actively engage in conduct that is in violation of sexual harassment
or hostile workplace laws.
8. Making fraudulent o
"
ers of products, items, or services originating from any UNR account.
9. E"
ecting security breaches or disruptions of network communication. Security breaches include,
but are not limited to accessing data of which the employee is not an intended recipient or logging
into a server or account that the employee is not expressly authorized to access, unless these duties
are within the scope of regular duties. For purposes of this section, "disruption" includes, but is not
limited to network sni
"ing, pinged floods, packet spoofing, denial of service, and forged routing
information for malicious purposes.
10.  Port scanning or security scanning is expressly prohibited unless prior authorization is gained by
Information Security.
11. Executing any form of network monitoring which will intercept data not intended for the employee's
host, unless this activity is a part of the employee's normal job/duty.
12.  Circumventing user authentication or security of any host, network or account.
13. Attempting to access restricted portions of the network, an operating system, security  so
!ware, or
other administrative applications without appropriate authorization from the system owner or

x1480administrator.
14. Intentionally accessing another person's account or email without authorization or attempting to
capture or guess other user's passwords.
15. Sending"spam",chain-letters, redistribution unsolicited communications unrelated to the sender's
University related duties.
16.  Use of email for commercial activities, or personal or financial gain, unless and solely to the extent
otherwise permitted by NRS 281A.400(7).
17.  Use of email for partisan political or lobbying activities.
18.  Sending of messages that violate any applicable University or Nevada System of Higher Education
policy. Unauthorized use, or forging, of email header in formation, or impersonation of
another person's email account.
 Privacy
While the University desires to provide a reasonable level of privacy and does not generally monitor or
limit content of information transmitted on the campus network, it reserves the right to access and review
such information under certain conditions. These include the following: investigating performance
deviations and system problems (with reasonable cause), determining if an individual is in violation of
this policy, as may be authorized by other University or NSHE policy, or, as may be necessary to ensure
that UNR is not subject to claims of institutional misconduct.
1.  For security and network maintenance purposes, authorized individuals within UNR may monitor
equipment, systems and network tra
"ic at any time. UNR reserves the right to audit networks and
systems on a periodic basis to ensure compliance with this policy.
2. In the event of a legal proceeding or as otherwise authorized by the President of the University (or
designee), under the advisement of the O"ice of General Counsel, Information Security reserves the
right to access and inspect stored information without the consent of the user when the information
is stored within UNR computing resources.
3. As a public agency, UNR is subject to Public Records requests (Nevada Revised Statutes chapter
239). Users that have University records contained in their personal email accounts or on personal
devices are responsible for furnishing such information when requested under these laws.
ABOUT
About the University (https://www.unr.edu/about)
About OIT (/about-oit/)
Applying (https://www.unr.edu/admissions#apply)
Degrees & Programs
 (https://www.unr.edu/academics#degrees-programs)
Colleges & Schools
 (https://www.unr.edu/academics#departments)
RESEARCHResearch
 (https://www.unr.edu/research)
Research Computing
 (https://www.unr.edu/research-computing)
Research Projects
 (https://www.unr.edu/research#our-research)
Infrastructure
 (https://www.unr.edu/research#infrastructure)
Student Opportunities
 (https://www.unr.edu/research#opportunities)
USEFUL LINKS
Employment & Careers
 (https://www.unr.edu/hr/jobs-and-working-at-nevada/job-opportunities)
Copyright (https://www.unr.edu/copyright)
Equal Opportunity and Title IX
 (https://www.unr.edu/equal-opportunity-title-ix)
Emergency Information
 (https://www.unr.edu/emergency)
Privacy
 (https://www.unr.edu/privacy)
Commitment to Accessibility
 (https://www.unr.edu/accessibility/commitment)
© 2018, University of Nevada, Reno, O
"ice of Information Technology, All Rights Reserved


