Social Networking on the Internet 
Guide for UCSB Employees, Department
s, and Registered Organizations  GENERAL  Social networking Web sites or on-line communities, such as My Space, Facebook, and 
Flickr are being used increasingly by students to communicate with each other, and by 

universities to post events and 
profiles to reach students.  
As part of the University of California, Santa Barbara™s commitment to building a community in which all persons ﬁcan work t
ogether in an atmosphere free of all forms of harassment, exploitation, or intimidation,ﬂ1 when using University electronic resources to access on-line social networks, University community members (academic and staemployees, students and others) 
are expected to act with honesty, integrity, and respect 

for the rights, privileges, pr
ivacy, sensibilities, and property
 of others.  By doing so, individuals will be abiding by applicable laws, in
cluding copyright law, University policy, 

and the University™s Statement of Ethical Values.   ff                                                  POSTING  University Business Use 
 Only University employees authorized by their departments may use social networking Web sites to conduct University business.  If authorized and in keeping with University 
policy, an employee may post on a social network profile: the University™s name, a University email address or University 
telephone number for contact purposes, or post official department information, resources, calendars, and events.  For example a student health advocate or educator is charged with student outreach and education 
within their job description.  Student Health Service may authorize these employees to use an on-line social network site to communicate with students and post University resources.  
 Personal Use  Consistent with the UC policy on Electronic Communications, personal use of University 
electronic resources to access social networking sites is to be limited to incidental use.  Incidental use must not interfere with an individual™s performance of his/her assigned 
job responsibilities or someone else™s job performance or compromise the functionality of the department or campus network.   Individuals or groups within 
the University community are not permitted to present personal opinions in ways that imply endorsement by the University.  If posted material may reasonably be construed as implying the support, endorsement, or opposition of the University with regard to any personal statements, incl
uding opinions or views on any issue, the material shall be accompanied 
by a disclaimer: an explicit statement that 
the individual is speaking for himself or herself and not as a representative of the University or any of its offices or units.  (Use of the University™s Name and 
University of California Policies Applying to Campus Ac
tivities, Organizations, and Students, Section 41.12)  An example of a disclaimer is as follows:  
 1 Policy on Sexual Harassment and Complaint Resolution Procedures < 
http://www.sa.ucsb.edu/Policies/SexualHarassment.asp> 

On-line Social Networking January 28, 2008 
Page 2 of 3  The contents, including all opinions and views expressed, in my 
profile [or on my page] are entirely personal and do not necessarily 
represent the opinions or views of anyone else, including other 

employees in my department or at the University of California.  My department and the University of California have not approved and 
are not responsible for the material
 contained in this profile [or on this page].  
The University™s name, University telephone 
numbers, University email addresses, and 
University images are not to be posted on social network profiles for academic and staff 
employees for personal purposes.  However, an academic or staff employee, or student 
government officer, or registered campus organization may use their University title for identification purposes.  If 
the use of the title might imply endorsement, support or opposition of the University with regard to any personal statements, including opinions 

or views on any issue, an explicit disclaime
r must appear proximate to the material.  See disclaimer above. 
 RISKS Œ SPAM, SPYWARE, AND VIRUSES  
 Many social networking sites collect profile information for advertising (SPAM) targeted at individuals with particular affiliations and 
interests.  Use of the sites may increase 
SPAM to your email account.   
 
In addition, from the social networking sites or links on social networking sites, your machine or network may be exposed to spyware and viruses that may damage your operating system, capture data, or otherwise compromise your privacy, your computer 

and the campus network, as well as affect others with whom you communicate.  MONITORING  The University of California, Santa Barbara 
doesn™t routinely monitor social networking sites, however, as with other electronic re
sources, University systems administrators 
may perform activities necessary to ensure the integrity, functionality and security of the University™s electronic resources.  (UC El
ectronic Communications Policy, Section IV)  
However, other employers,
 organizations, and individuals do monitor and share 
information they find on social networking 
Web sites.  Posted information is public 
information.  
 INVESTIGATIONS  In response to concerns or complaints or information provided by individuals, University administrators may look up profiles on social networking sites and may use the 

information in informal or formal proceedings.  
In addition, the University has no control over how other employers, organizations, or individuals may use information they find 
on social networking Web sites. 
 
Whether professionally or for incidental personal use, if you use social networking Web 
sites, please read the We Care Safety Tips.  
On-line Social Networking January 28, 2008 
Page 3 of 3   
RELATED RESOURCES  Campus, laboratory and Office of the President Principles of Community  Statement of Ethical Values  Academic Personnel Policy Manual   The Faculty Code of Conduct
  
The Faculty Handbook 
  
Personnel Policies for Staff Members 
  
Policies Applying to Campus Activities, Organizations and Students 
  
Policy on Sexual Harassment and Procedures for Responding to Reports of Sexual 
Harassment   
Policy on the Use of the University™s Name
  
University policies on nondiscrim
ination and affirmative action   
University Electronic Communications Policy
  
User Agreements for Electronic Resources (see providers™ Web sites)  
We Care Safety Tips 
