Student Guide
OverviewThe following is an abridged guide to the UC Electronic Communications Policy (ECP) which governs
use of campus electronic resources including, but not limited to, computer labs, email, iLearn, wireless
network, and virtual private network (VPN). By using UCR campus electronic resources you are
agreeing to abide by the ECP. The complete version of the ECP, as well as the ECP Overview and
Implementation at UCR, is available online at 
http://cnc.ucr.edu/policies.html
Acceptable Use of UCR Electronic Resources:Allowed:Instructional and research related purposes
Sending and receiving e-mail
Accessing the Internet
Creating web sites
Not Allowed:
Illegal activities
Violations of University policies
Use of electronic communications resources for commercial benefit or personal financial gain
Utilizing the UniversityÕs name and/or seal without appropriate approvals
Giving the impression that you are representing or otherwise making statements on behalf of
UCR or any department, unit, or sub-unit of the university unless appropriately authorized to do
soCausing excessive strain on any campus electronic communications resource or unwarranted or
unsolicited interference with othersÕ use of electronic communications
Student ECP Guidelines

What you can expect as an Electronic Communications user atUCRAccess and access restrictions
Policy enforcement
Security, confidentiality, and privacy
What is considered acceptable use1. Instructional and Research related purposes
UCR electronic resources are primarily intended for instructional and research purposes,
including class-related activities, academic research, and administrative tasks that support
instruction and research. For example, students may use iLearn to obtain class materials,
complete coursework, and interact with classmates and instructors on class-related topics for
academic purposes. Students may, and are expected to, use resources such as GROWL and
email for administrative tasks such as financial aid and managing enrollment.
2. Sending and receiving e-mail
UCR students may use campus electronic resources for sending and receiving e-mail. This
includes the use of UCR email, and the use of the campus network to access UCR email or other
e-mail accounts. Use of campus resources for sending and receiving e-mail is limited by federal,
state and local laws, as well as other University policies. E-mail activities that are prohibited
include using UCR e-mail accounts or servers to send spam, for harassment, or for commercial
purposes such as selling textbooks and other items or operating a business.
3. Accessing the Internet
UCR students may use campus Internet resources, including the wireless network, Internet
access provided by the campus computer labs, and residential Internet connections provided in
the residence halls and some off-campus housing. Access to the Internet is subject to individual
departmental policies of the department providing the service, as well as federal, state or local
laws, other parts of the ECP, or other University policies. Internet activities that are prohibited
include using the UCR network to illegally download copyrighted materials such as movies or
music, excessive bandwidth usage that is significant enough to adversely affect campus network
performance, and deliberately or unknowingly spreading computer worms or viruses over the
Internet.

4. Creating web sites
Students may post websites on their R'Mail accounts and campus servers. For example, students
may post personal websites on their student R'Mail accounts. Student groups may post websites
on departmental web servers with the permission of the hosting department. Use of campus web
servers is limited by the policies of the individual departmental owners of any specific web server,
as well as other sections of the ECP. Web sites hosted on campus servers or R'Mail may not be
operated for commercial purposes or financial gain, such as operating a business or offering
services for profit. Furthermore, student or student organization web sites may not imply that they
represent UCR without appropriate authorization.
Uses that are prohibited1. Illegal activities
All relevant federal, state and local laws apply when using University electronic communications.
This includes laws that prohibit cyberstalking, digital copyright infringement, disrupting Internet
and UCR intranet networks and systems (for example by transmitting viruses, sending spam, or
hacking into othersÕ transmissions or files), and tapping telephones.
2. Activities that violate University policies
All relevant University policies apply when using UCR electronic resources. This includes policies
on sexual harassment, other forms of harassment, and intellectual property. For example,
campus resources may not be used to obtain or re-distribute the intellectual property of others
without authorization, including research, presentations, etc. Campus e-mail and iLearn may not
be used to send spam or other harassing e-mails. In addition, individual departmental resources
may only be used in accordance with departmental policies and with appropriate authorization.
3. Commercial benefit or personal financial gain
Campus electronic resources may not be used for commercial benefit or personal financial gain.
For example, student websites may not be used to sell products or services. iLearn may not be
used to sell textbooks or to post notices advertising rooms for rent.
4. Activities that utilize the UniversityÕs name and/or seal without
appropriate approvals
Users of UCR electronic resources must abide University policies regarding the use of the

University's name, seal, or trademarks. The University's name, seal, or trademarks may not be
used without appropriate authorization. For example, students may not include the University
seal on their web sites without authorization.
5. Activities that imply representation on behalf of UCR
Users of campus electronic resources may not give the impression that they are representing or
otherwise making statements on behalf of UCR or any department, unit, or sub-unit of the
university unless appropriately authorized to do so. For example, the University name may not be
included in advertisements for products or services without authorization to imply University
affiliation or endorsement.
6. Activities that cause excessive strain on campus electronic
communication
University electronic communications resources shall not be used in a manner that could
reasonably be expected to cause excessive strain on any campus electronic communications
resource or unwarranted or unsolicited interference with othersÕ use of electronic communications
resources. For example, campus electronic resources may not be used to send spam, or engage
in denial of service attacks. In addition, excessive bandwidth usage that adversely affects
campus network services is prohibited and may result in restrictions on access.
7. Operation of personal web servers
Students may not operate personal web servers on campus, or using campus resources. This
includes, but is not limited to, the establishment of web servers for commercial purposes,
personal websites, or student organization websites.
What you can expect as an Electronic Communications user atUCR1. Access and Access Restrictions
Duration of Access
 Ð In general, students' access to electronic communication services will
remain active for approximately one quarter, or indefinitely in the case of Gmail services, after
graduation.
Accessibility
 Ð All electronic communications resources intended to accomplish the academic and
administrative tasks of the university shall be accessible to allowable users with disabilities in

compliance with law and UC policies
Access Restrictions
 Ð Access to campus electronic resources may be restricted when there is
substantial reason to believe that violations of law or University policies have taken place, or
when time-dependent, critical operational circumstances exist. Violations of law or University
policies include, but are not limited to, excessive bandwidth use, enough to cause network
performance degradation, continued off-campus complaints with no response from on-campus
responsible parties, verified open proxy or open mail servers, attacks observed by Computing &
CommunicationsÕ network monitoring systems, and verified DMCA violations. 
Backups and Data Retrieval
 Ð Electronic communications are routinely backed-up. However, this
is only for purposes of system integrity and reliability, to support data restoration in cases of disk
failure, and is not designed to provide for future information retrieval.
2. Policy Enforcement
Violations of the ECP may result in revocation of access to a single resource, a combination of
resources, or all campus electronic resources, depending upon the violation. 
UCR in general cannot be the arbiter of the contents of electronic communications. Moreover, the
University cannot always protect users from receiving electronic communications they might find
undesirable or offensive.
3. Security, Confidentiality and Privacy
UCR does not routinely collect information about an individualÕs web use or sites visited. Except
when tracking a reported crime, the monitoring of web sites visited, or web use in general, is not
permitted under U.C. policy. UCR does not routinely inspect, monitor, or disclose electronic
communications without the holderÕs consent. UCR only permits the inspection, monitoring, or
disclosure of electronic communications records without the consent of the holder of such
records when one or more of the following apply AND when appropriate campus approvals have
been obtained: When required by and consistent with law.
When there is substantiated reason to believe that violations of law or of University
policies have taken place.
When there are compelling circumstances for which failure to act might result in significant
bodily harm, significant property loss or damage, loss of significant evidence relating to
violations of law or UC policies, or significant liability to the UCR or to members of the

university community
When there are time-dependent, critical operational circumstances and when failure to act
could seriously hamper the universityÕs ability to function administratively or to meets its
teaching or research obligations.
References:UCR Overview and Implementation of the Electronic Communications Policy
UC Electronic Communications Policy
Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA)
 General Campus InformationUniversity of California,
Riverside900 University Ave.
Riverside
, CA 92521Tel: 
(951) 827-1012
UCR Libraries
Campus Status
Campus Store
Career Opportunities
Diversity
Maps and Directions
Visit UCR
Department InformationStudent Computing Services
2103 Watkins Hall
Tel: (951) 827-6495
Fax: (951) 827-2726
E-mail: 
helpdesk@student.ucr.edu
Related LinksStudent Computing Services
Legal2Share
DMCA Information
Visit UCRÕs Facebook page
Follow UCR on Twitter
Visit UCRÕs YouTube
channel
Feedback
 Privacy Policy
 Terms and Conditions
 © 2015 Regents of the University of California
 Last modified: 2015-Oct-
12
