  
  
      
   
  
  
     
     
  
    
     
     
         
   
      
         
      
   
   
    
   
  
   
  
    
  
     
      
    
         
      
  
     
      
  
         
  
    
     
      
  
   
 USA Student Computer Use Policy 
USA provides student access to computer resources through the wireless, 
JagMail (email), web servers, and departmental labs located throughout 
campus. Students using these resources must adhere to all policies of the 
University of South Alabama regarding the use of computers and computer 

networks. 
Lab privileges can be denied to anyone using University equipment for illegal 
or unethical purposes. Any illegal behavior observed in the labs will be 
reported to appropriate University officials or law enforcement agencies. 

Anyone using the lab computers in this way, or any other generally 
inconsiderate manner, will be subject to appropriate disciplinary action. Such 
behaviors/activities include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: 
Illegal Activity 
 Uploading or downloading copyrighted material
, violating the 
intellectual property rights of others, or illegally sharing trade secrets. 
(Please note that MP3 and other music files frequently fall into this 

category.) Accessing, downloading, or printing out articles solely for 
educational and research purposes, however, may be permissible under 
the fair use clause of the Copyright Law. See USA Software Policy for 
more specific guidelines on using copyrighted software. 
 Illegally sharing computer software 
via Internet, the local network, 
personal disks or any other med
ia  Copying or transmitting material contained in copyrighted 
databases 
such as Infotrac, without permission from the source. 
 Buying or selling weapons or illegal substances 
via computer 
network. 
 Threatening or "stalking" 
others via computer network. 
 Knowingly replicating or transmitting computer viruses
, or 
otherwise deliberately damaging the systems or files of other people. 
Strictly Prohibited Behaviors/Activities 
 Trafficking in pornography 
of any kind via computer network. Please 
note that redistribution of pornography, even though web page links, is 
often illegal. 
 Activity that violates state or federal law
. This may include viewing, 
downloading, posting, printing or sending pornography, or other sexually 

explicit, profane, obscene, hostile, or blatantly offensive and intimidating 

    
   
   
     
   
   
     
      
   
   
  
       
   
   
     
     
    
   
    
      
  
    
  
  
   
           
  
     
     
   
    
   
  
    
    
  
   
        
    
  
    
  
      
    
   
  
  
    
 material, including hate speech, threats, harassing communications (as 
defined by law), or information that violates any state or federal laws. 
 "Spam"
, the practice of indiscriminately sending unsolicited email (e.g., 
commercial advertisements, chain mail, pornographic materials, political 
lobbying, hate speech, racial diatribes, and religious proselytizing) to 
persons who have not indicated interest in receiving such materials. 
 "Hacking" or "Cracking"
, i.e., deliberately invading the privacy of 
others by attempting to gain unauthorized access to any account or 
system. 
 Obtaining/distributing confidential information
. Deliberately and 
inappropriately observing, recording, accessing, using or transmitting 

passwords, account numbers, e-mail addresses, phone numbers or 
credit card numbers belonging to other people is prohibited. 
 Downloading executable programs
, which might interject computer 
viruses into lab computers, is generally prohibited. Further guidance 
with regard to safe sites and appropriate downloads should be sought 
from the lab facilitator. (The University takes no responsibility for 
damage to your work or your own equipment resulting from viruses or 
files you might download via the Internet.) 
 Using University equipment, including the University's Internet 
lines, servers or web pages, for commercial gain 
.  Unauthorized wiring, altering or damaging of University-owned 

computer equipment, 
including hardware and software. 
 Tampering 
with lab machine settings. 
Considerate Use 
 "Surfing the Net" 
on lab machines for academic enrichment is 
permitted; however, precedence is always given to students needing 

access for assigned course work. Classes in the lab with a faculty 
member also have precedence. Otherwise, lab access is allocated on a 
first-come basis. Individuals who have been on a computer for more 

than two hours should yield if others are waiting. 
 In consideration of other network users, students should 
limit 
bandwidth-intensive activities 
(e.g., playing or downloading games, 
music, and video) to those required by their curriculum. 
Violations/Consequences 
In addition to all guidelines in the policies stated here, all USA students are 
subject to the rules outlined in 
the 
Code of Student Conduct 
and the 
Student 
Academic Conduct Policy
, which are 
both published in 
The Lowdown
. 
       
         
        
      
  
    
     
       
  
   
  
  
   
     
   
     
  
      
    
  
  
  
   
   
  
      
      
   
      
      
  
   
    
  
   
    
   
  
        
   
       
   
  
  
   
     
  
   
    
  
      
    
      
  Violations of any USA computer policies incur the same types of disciplinary 
measures as other University policies or state or federal laws (up to and 
including criminal prosecution). 
Additional Guidelines for Students 

Sexually Explicit Material
. All students are expected to effectively 
discriminate between professional and unprofessional portrayals of nudity and 
sexuality. This is an important aspect of professional judgment in many fields 
of study. Dealing with nudity, the examination of the human body and the full 

range of human sexuality are relevant and appropriate to those in medical and 
other professions. A number of Internet sites (e.g., The National Library of 
Medicine and NIH) portray some such materials. Individuals working in 
medical school and nursing labs should expect to occasionally encounter 
nudity and professional portrayals of sexually explicit material. 
Appropriate Activity
. While the full range of free speech is supported and 
encouraged, USA students should always be mindful of the fact that the 

computer labs are located in public areas. Materials on screens visible to 
others working in the lab, materials that are deliberately or inadvertently left 
behind on the hard drive, and materials posted to the Internet from this lab 
should reflect well on the professionalism of our programs. Imposing exposure 
to inappropriate sexual materials upon student or faculty colleagues working 
nearby (or using the lab at a later time) might be construed as sexual 
harassment. Those in doubt about appropriate activity should seek faculty 
advice. 
Confidentiality
. Confidentiality is another issue affecting students using the 
labs. Under no circumstances should students leave, post or transmit 
confidential material such as research data, case reports or private notes 
about patients (or case studies) on these computers. The University takes no 

responsibility for student work left on lab machines, even if the lab facilitator 
gave permission for it to be on the machine. Any such work may, at any time, 
be erased accidentally or in routine clean-up activities. Students should not 
leave private work or communications on these computers, nor should they 
read any private information accidentally left by others. No material should be 

left on these computers without permission from the lab facilitator. 
Reliability of Information
. Students should remember that material on the 
Internet may or may not be accurate and reliable. It is critical that any 
information found on the Internet is carefully evaluated, especially with regard 
to pharmacology and health information. 

