 3341-6-43 Student Email
.   Applicability
  All University units
  Responsible
 Unit
  The 
Vice President for Finance and 
Administration
  Policy
 Administrator
  The Office of the Chief Information Officer
  
(A)
 Policy Statement and Purpose
  Official u
niversity email accounts are required for all BGSU students.  
The official BGSU email address for all students will be in the form:  

username@bgsu.edu.
  
Undergraduate students receiving email at the official BGSU email 

address will have these messages auto
matically forwarded to their Office 
365 email box using their 
username@bgsu.edu
 address.
  (B)
 Policy
  At the time of admission or initial registration, all stud
ents are given a 
BGSU account. 
Students may anticipate that official university 
correspondence 
will come to them through this email account and should 
access this email account on a regular and timely basis.
  
Additionally, all students should recognize that their BGSU account is 

currently part of the authentication process used for accessing the 

MyB
GSU p
ortal.  MyBGSU is an essential u
niversity tool used for 
administrative and academic correspondence.  It is expected that students 

will be required to use this tool to access one or more administrative or 

academic services 
at the u
niversity, such as gr
ade reports, class 
registration and class assignments/announcements.
  
(1)
 University use of email 
- Email is a mechanism for official 
communication within Bowlin
g Green State University.  The 
university expects that such communications will be received and 

3341-6-43  2  rea
d in a timely fashion.  Official email communications are 
intended only to meet the academic and administrative needs of the 

campus community.  As stewards of the process, Information 

Technology Services is responsible for directing the use of official 

stu
dent email.
  
(2)
 Assignment of student email 
- A BGSU Account Registration Web 
site is available to allow students to set up their BGSU account 

online.  This page is located at http://www.bgsu.edu/newaccount.
  Admitted students will receive an information pack
et that includes 
information necessary to create their BGSU account.
  
Students on the main campus can use the Web service or can 

register for an email account by bringing their official BGSU ID to 

the Technology Support Center in 110 Hayes Hall.  Firelands
 students can register for an account online or by visiting the Main 

Lab in 231 North and bringing their official BGSU ID.  Accounts 

must be created before the University can correspond with its 

students using the official email accounts.
  
Official email a
ddresses will be directory information unless a 
student requests otherwise.
  
(3)
 Expectations about student use of email 
- Students are expected to 
check their email on a frequent and consistent basis in order to 

recognize that certain communications may be time critical.  "I 

didn't check my email," error in forwarding 
mail, or email r
eturned 
to the u
niversity with "Mailbox Full" or "User Unknown" are not 

acceptabl
e excuses for missing official u
niversity communications 
via email.  Additionally, no student should share his or her BGSU 

password with any other individual.  Such sharing co
uld facilitate 

violations of federal, state, and/or local laws and therefore is 

prohibited.
  
(4)
 Redirecting of email 
- Students who wish to have email red
irected 
from their official u
niversity email address to another email 
address (e.g., @aol.com, 
@hotmail.com), may do s
o, but at their 
own risk.  The u
niversity will not be responsible for the handling 

of email by outside vendors.  Having email redirected does not 

absolve students from the responsibilities associated with the 

3341-6-43  3  official communication s
ent to their BGSU account.  In order to 
forward email, please contact the Technology Support Center in 
110 Hayes Hall or by telephone at 419
-372-0999.  
(5)
 Authentication of confidential info
rmation 
- It is a violation of 
university policies, including the Cod
es of St
udent Conduct to 
impersonate a u
niversity officer, faculty/staff member or student.  
To minimize this risk of fraud, some confidential information may 

be made available only through MyBGSU, which is password 

protected.  In these cases, students wil
l receive email 
correspondence directing them to MyBGSU, where they can 

access the confidential information only by authenticating.  The 

confidential information will not be available in the email message.  

Again, because password protection is a key compo
nent of 

MyBGSU security, students should never share their passwords or 

other identifying informati
on, except as requested by the 

university.
  
(6)
 Privacy 
- Users should exercise extreme caution in using email to 
communicate confidential or sensitive matters, 
and should not 

assume that email is private or confidential.  It is especially 

important that users are careful to send messages only to the 

intended recipient(s).  Particular care should be taken when using 

the "reply" command during email correspondence.
  
(7)
 Educational uses of email 
- Faculty will determine how electronic 
forms of communication (e.g., email) will be used in their classes, 

and will specify their requirements in the course syllabus.  This 

"Official Student Email Policy" will ensure that all s
tudents will be 
able to comply with email based course requirements specified by 

faculty.  Faculty can therefore make the assumption that students' 

official BGSU accounts are being assessed and faculty can use 

email for their classes accordingly.
  (8)
 Enforcem
ent and Sanctions
  
Use of BGSU technology resources must be completed in 

compliance with the BGSU Information Technology Policy 

(http://www.bgsu.edu/offices/cio/page52522.html).  Any violations 

will be referred to the appropriate disciplinary authority for
 review.
  
3341-6-43  4  Registered Date: March 17, 2015
  
