UNC Computer, Internet & Electronic
Communication Procedures
General
What does this procedure govern?
This procedure explains the acceptable use of University of Northern ColoradoÕs computing
and communication resources, including computers, networks, electronic mail, electronic
information sources, voice mail, telephone services and other communication resources. 
Acceptable use is based on common sense, common decency and civility applied to the
electronic communications environment.
How can resources be used?
UNC's computing & communications and communications resources are university owned.
These resources are to be used to further the university's mission of teaching, learning, 
the
advancement of knowledge and community services and shall be used in a manner 
consistent
with the instructional, research, and administrative objectives of the 
University community in
general and with the purpose for which such use was intended.
Who can use the computing and communication resources?

Computing and communication resources are provided for the use of faculty, sta
!
, 
currently
admitted or enrolled UNC students and other properly authorized users. Access 
to the
computing and communication resource environment is a privilege and must be 
treated as
such by all users of these systems. Access to the University systems may 
require approval of
the appropriate UNC supervisory or management authority (e.g. 
department heads, system
administrators, etc.)
What are the penalties for abuse or violation?
Abuse of computing and electronic communication privileges can be a matter of legal 
action
or o
"
cial campus disciplinary procedures. Depending upon the seriousness 
of an o
!
ense,
violation of the procedure can result in penalties ranging from reprimand 
(e.g. don't do this
any more), to loss of access, to referral to university authorities 
for disciplinary action. In order
to sustain reasonable performance and secure services 
for the rest of the user community,
the computing facility may immediately suspend 
an individual's access privileges. Access to
UNC computing and communication resources 
may be wholly or partially restricted by the
University without prior notice and without 
consent of the user:
If required by applicable law, policy or procedure
If there is a reasonable suspicion that there has been or may be a violation of law,
regulation, procedure, or policy
If required to protect the integrity or operation of the computing and communication
resources or when the resources are required for more critical tasks as determined 
byappropriate management authority.
What if I suspect my resources have been compromised?
 What other applicable administrative policies and procedures and student code of 
conduct
are applicable to University system users?
What other applicable administrative policies and procedures and student code of

conduct 
are applicable to University system users?
 All applicable laws and University policies, regulations and procedures bind UNC 
students and
employees. For ease of reference, some applicable laws and procedures 
are listed below. This
list is an illustration only. It is not intended to be exhaustive 
or to limit the applicability of any
other law or policy.
1. CONDITIONS OF ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE
(http://www.unco.edu/trustees/Policy_Manual.pdf)
2. CONDITIONS OF FACULTY SERVICE
 (http://www.unco.edu/trustees/Policy_Manual.pdf)
3. CONDITIONS OF PROFESSIONAL SERVICE
(http://www.unco.edu/trustees/Policy_Manual.pdf)
4. COPYRIGHT & DIGITAL MILLENIUM COPYRIGHT ACT
 (/general-counsel/dmca.aspx)
5. GRAMM-LEACH BLILEY ACT
 (https://www.ftc.gov/tips-advice/business-center/privacy-and-
security/gramm-leach-bliley-act)
6. HIPAA (http://www.unco.edu/ship/main/PDFs/HIPAA%20Policy.pdf)
7. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
(http://www.unco.edu/facultysenate/other_pdfs/intellec_prop_rights_6-04.pdf)
8. PRIVACY POLICY
 (/general-counsel/privacy.aspx)
9. PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
 (/general-counsel/privacy.aspx)
10. TRADEMARK USE
 (/universityrelations/)
Required Procedures & Prohibited Usage
Required Procedures
By acquiring an account or utilizing University electronic resources you assume the
responsibility to:
1. Comply with these procedures, state, federal laws and UNC regulations and policies
2. Respect the rights and privacy of others, including intellectual property and personal
property rights
3. Refrain from activities that may damage or obstruct the network and electronic resources
and information

4. Avoid restricted areas and not compromise the integrity of electronic resources
5. Secure your passwords and make them di
"
cult to obtain or guess
6. Be honest and accurate in personal and computer identi
#
cation
7. Agree to cooperate and comply with UNC's requests for access to and copies of email
messages or data when access or disclosure is authorized by this procedure or required 
orallowed by law or other applicable procedures, regulations and policies.
Prohibited Usage
Unacceptable uses that are prohibited include, but are not limited to the following:
1. Use of computer resources or electronic information for any purpose that may violate
federal or state laws
2. Any person who knowingly uses any computer, computer system, computer network or any
part thereof for the purpose of devising or executing any scheme or arti
#
ce to defraud;
obtain money, property, or service by means of false or fraudulent pretenses,
representations, 
or promises; using the property or services of another without
authorization; or committing 
theft
3. Any person who knowingly and without authorization uses, alters, damages or destroys 
anycomputer, computer system, computer network or any computer software, program
documentation, or date contained in such computer, computer system, or computer
network
4. Use of resources for personal or private business or commercial activities, fund raising 
oradvertising on behalf of non-UNC organizations
5. Misrepresentation or forging your identity or the source of any electronic communication
6. Unlawful communications, including threats of violence, obscenity, child pornography 
andharassing communications
7. Unauthorized acquisition, attempts to acquire, and use of passwords of others.
Unauthorized 
use and attempts to use the computer accounts of others.
8. Assuming someone else's identity or altering the content of a message originating 
from
another person or computer with intent to deceive
9. Interference with or disruption of the computer, telephone or network accounts, services
or equipment of others is prohibited. The intentional propagation of computer "worms",
"viruses", activities that place undue stress on resources such as ending chain letters,

"spam" or widespread dissemination of unsolicited email and letter bombs or the
resending 
of the same email repeatedly to one or more recipients
10. Reselling of UNC resources
11. Unauthorized use of University logos and other protected trademarks and logos
12. Any alteration of source or destination addresses including uniform resource locators
(URLs) or other actions that mask the University identity
13. Unauthorized anonymous and pseudonymous communications
14. Unauthorized modi
#
cation of or deletion of another person's 
#
les, account or posting;
altering or attempting to alter 
#
les or systems without authorization
15. Use of computer resources or electronic information without authorization or beyond 
one's
level of authorization
16. Interception or attempted interception of communications by parties not authorized 
orintended to receive them
17. Making resources available to individuals not a
"
liated with UNC without prior
administrative 
approval
18. Revealing passwords or otherwise permitting the use by other (by intent or negligence) 
ofpersonal accounts for computer and network access without authorization
19. Intentionally or recklessly compromising the privacy or security of University electronic
information
20. Infringing upon the copyright, trademark, patent or other intellectual property rights 
ofothers in computer programs or electronic information (including plagiarism and
unauthorized use of reproduction) is prohibited. The unauthorized storing, copying 
or use
of audio 
#
les, images, graphics, computer software, data sets, bibliographic 
records and
other protected property is prohibited except as permitted by law
21. Failure to comply with requests from appropriate UNC o
"
cials to discontinue activities 
that
threaten the operation or integrity of computers, systems or networks, or otherwise 
violate
this procedure
22. Unauthorized scanning of networks or computers for security vulnerabilities.
23. Altering or attempting to alter any computing or network components (such as routers,
switches, and hubs) without approval or beyond one's level of authorization
24. Negligent or intentional conduct leading to disruption and or damage of electronic
networks or information systems
Privacy & Security

Users should not have an expectation of privacy for communications on the University
network. Con
#
dentiality of email, voicemail and other network transmissions cannot 
beassured. Therefore all users should exercise extreme caution when committing con
#
dential
information to electronic media.
Under the Colorado Open Records Act, electronic 
#
les are treated in much the same 
way aspaper 
#
les. Any o
"
cial university documents (as de
#
ned by law) in the 
#
les 
of employees of
the State of Colorado are considered to be public documents, and may 
be subject to
inspection through the Open Records Act. In such cases, the Legal Counsel 
to the Board of
Trustees should inspect the contents of the applicable 
#
les to determine 
which portions
may be exempt from disclosure. Any inspection of electronic 
#
les, 
and any action based
upon such inspection will be governed by all applicable U.S. 
and Colorado laws and by
university policy.
Certain central service and network activities from workstations connected to the 
network
are routinely logged and monitored. These activities include:
Use of passwords and accounts accessed
Time and duration of network activity
Access to web pages
Access to network software
Volume of data storage and transfers
Server space used for data and email
In case of suspected violations of UNC procedures, especially unauthorized access 
tocomputing systems, the system administrator may authorize detailed session logging. 
Thismay involve a complete keystroke log of an entire session. In addition the system
administrator may authorize limited searching of user 
#
les to gather evidence on 
asuspected violation.
Users must protect and backup critical data. UNC Information Technology is not obligated
to maintain backups of any 
#
le for any particular length of time. Individual users 
anddepartments should develop policies and practices to ensure regular backups of 
data and
implement steps to ensure that all critical data is compatible with all current 
generations of
computing equipment and storage media and media readers.
All UNC department should implement policies to ensure that access to sensitive data 
isrestricted to those employees who have a need to access the information. Passwords
restricting access to information should be changed on a regular basis and systems 
should
be developed and implemented to assure password records are regularly updated 
by
appropriate supervisors
University owned computer and equipment might be examined to detect unauthorized
software 
use and to evaluate the security of the network
Default or issued passwords, such as those from a manufacturer, should be immediately
changed
Web Procedures
Purpose
The University of Northern Colorado recognizes the importance of the World Wide Web
("Web") in meeting the needs of many audiences, including prospective students. The 
Web is a
valuable tool for areas of instruction, research and information sharing 
and is a critical
component of the universityÕs image. The university encourages faculty, 
sta
!
 and students to
publish information in support of the mission of the university, 
recognizing that all users at the
university are accountable to the taxpayers of the 
State of Colorado and the Web resources
must be used in an ethical, courteous, legal 
and e
"
cient manner.
University Web Pages
Responsibilities
1. Users must comply with all federal and state laws, contracts, software licenses and
university policies, regulations and procedures, including but not limited to those 
related to
personal conduct. The regulations of the Family Educational Rights and 
Privacy Act apply to
all student information published on the web.
2. All users must comply with UNC Web Publication Guidelines.
3. Individual departments are responsible for quality of their own Web pages. Each o
"
ce 
orgroup should designate a faculty or sta
!
 person responsible for accuracy, quality 
andcurrency of its Web pages.
4. The O
"
ce of Web Communications is responsible for design, content creation and

maintenance 
of all university top level pages, such as the home and user pages,, as well as
the 
development of Web procedures and publication guidelines. Web Communications is
also 
responsible for coordination of university Web e
!
orts and serves as a resource to 
the
campus for information and assistance.
5. The university does not monitor o
"
cial Web pages but will respond to issues or concerns
of which it is made aware as they arise. Web Communications may review and request
changes to any o
"
cial university page(s) as appropriate.
Use of Resources
1. University Web resources are to be used only for university-related purposes and cannot 
beused to create or host personal pages or organizational sites unrelated to the 
mission of
the unit. Mission related sites may be hosted upon approval of the sponsoring 
department
and O
"
ce of Web Communications.
2. Web resources, including bandwidth, may not be used for private or personal commercial
gain or pro
#
t.3. Use of available Web resources is encouraged, however, users may be required to refrain
from or modify uses if they interfere with the e
!
ective or secure operation of the
universityÕs Web resources. Files on the Web server must be limited to those directly
applicable to the function of the Web site.
4. The university reserves the right to set limits on Web resource use as necessary. 
Anexplanation of any limitations will be maintained as information in the Web Publication
Guidelines.
5. The university Web server should not be used to host video 
#
les. A university streaming
video server is available through the o
"
ce of Web Communications.
6. External assistance for Web site creation may be retained on consultation with the 
Director
of Web Communications and appropriate Information Management and Technology 
sta
!members. All contracts or signed documents relating to external Web projects 
must be
reviewed and cosigned by University Counsel.
7. O
"
cial pages should be hosted on a university server. External Web server hosting 
isallowed only through prior written approval of the o
"
ce of Web Communications.
Advertising

1. For the purpose of this procedure, advertising is de
#
ned as o
!
ering space in a university
Web page to another party to promote a product, service or facility in exchange for 
money,
services or goods. In general, advertising is not allowed on university Web 
pages but may
be authorized in certain circumstances. Any authorized advertising must 
be approved
through the university contracting and purchasing process and reviewed 
by the Executive
Director of Purchasing & Contracts and the University Counsel.
2. Links to commercial, for-pro
#
t entities that do not generate advertising revenue 
mayviolate the competition rules governing state institutions if they confer a commercial
advantage on one private entity over another. Unauthorized links that might imply 
anendorsement by the university create an unacceptable risk. Questions regarding 
this
category of links should be directed to the Director of Web Communications or 
University
Counsel.
3. Guidance for speci
#
c categories of commercial links is as follows:
Links in kinds, such as in exchange for graphics, are not allowed.
Links indicating software products used should not be placed on Web pages except as 
partof an approved contractual agreement.
Recognition of an event sponsor may be listed on a Web page but links to web sites 
of the
donor or event sponsor are not allowed unless authorized through the o
"
ce 
of Web
Communications.
Links to for-pro
#
t businesses can be included as part of an approved contractual
agreement.
Links to plug-in download sites required for Web page function are discouraged.
Links to not-for-pro
#
t services or mission related organizations are allowed if the
arrangement is not exclusive and links to related organizations or services would 
beaccepted on the page.
Endorsements of private, for-pro
#
t services or goods are not allowed.
Enforcement
1. Individuals aware of content in violation of these procedures may contact the person
responsible for the page or the Director of Web Communications. Minor or accidental
infractions may be resolved through informal communications.
2. The university reserves the right to remove any account, information or link to information

that is in violation of these policies.
3. Users who violate these regulations may be subject to university disciplinary action 
orreferred to appropriate university o
"
cials or, when appropriate, law enforcement
authorities.
Privacy Policy
 (/general-counsel/privacy.aspx)
 | A
"
rmative Action/Equal Employment Opportunity/Title IX Policy
& Coordinator
 (/sexual-misconduct/index.aspx)

