 UNIVERSITY OF MIA
MI POLICY AND PROCEDURE MANUAL
 TITLE:
 Acceptable Use of Info Tech Resources 
by Students
 REFERENCE:   
Revised
 CATEGORY: 
 Information Technology
 PAGE:                
1  SUPERSEDES: 
A060
 APPROVER: 
     
David Ertel
                            
Interim 
Senior
 Vice President
                            
Business and Finance
  VERSION:        
1 EFFECTIVE:   
  March 1, 2017
      I. PURPOSE: 
 The University of Miami™s information technology resources have been assembled to facilitate 
the pursuit of excellence in the University™s missions of teaching, research, and service. These 
pursuits are founded upon the basic principles of academ
ic freedom and freedom of expression 
which transcend the means of communication used to convey these messages. The proliferation 
of technology continually provides new and different means of communicating the results of 
these endeavors, which must be adequ
ately managed and protected while recognizing these 
very important principles. The opportunity to use computing systems and software, as well as 
internal and external data networks, is important to all members of the University community. To 
preserve that 
opportunity for the full community, each individual student must comply with 
institutional and external standards for acceptable use of these shared resources. Although 

modest personal use of University
-supplied technology resources may improve the skills 
of 
individual users and otherwise contribute indirectly to the University™s mission, these resources 
should be used primarily for University
-related educational and administrative purposes. By 
using University information technology facilities and resource
s, users agree to abide by all 

related University policies and procedures, as well as applicable federal, state, and local law. 
Violations may result in University disciplinary action or referral to appropriate external 
authorities.
 II.
 SCOPE:
 [Intentionally O
mitted]
 III.
 POLICY:
  The University of Miami maintains a computing system for the academic and administrative use 

of faculty, staff, and students. The University strives to provide a robust, resilient, and reliable 
information technology infrastructure to enab
le excellence in scholarship and education through 
the effective and innovative use of computers and information technology. The University of 
Miami computing systems and network are resources provided for all members of the University 
community. Because c
omputing and network resources are shared, individuals should use the 
systems responsibly in pursuit of academic and administrative functions, and in doing so, are 
not to infringe on the rights, integrity, or privacy of others or their data. In using the c
omputing 
systems and network, individuals and groups must abide by standards of lawful and ethical 

behavior.
 
 Acceptable Use of Info Tech Resources by Students
 Policy
 2  IV.
 DEFINITIONS:
 N/A
 V. PROCEDURE:
 A. Use of the University of Miami™s computing systems and network is a privilege that carries 
numerous obligations. By u
sing the University of Miami™s computing systems and network, 
you (the ﬁUser(s)ﬂ) agree to abide by the following User Obligations:
  Responsible and Lawful Conduct. By using the University of Miami™s computing systems 

and network, Users agree that informati
on posted on or distributed through the systems 
or network contains no obscene material; no advertising material or promotional material 
promoting products or services, except as may be permitted pursuant to University World 
Wide Web Policies 
- A047; no ma
terial which constitutes libel, slander or invasion of 
privacy or publicity rights; no violation of copyrights or trademarks; no incitement to riot 
or violence; and no violation of federal, state or local law. This paragraph is not intended 
to limit academ
ic freedom.
  Respect for the University of Miami™s Computing Systems and Network administration. 
Users should use the systems and network in a way that promotes the University of 
Miami™s academic mission. Accordingly, when it is necessary to perform systems
 administration, or, in order to protect the University of Miami™s legal interests, network 

administrators may access all files and data on the University Computing Systems and 
Network. In addition, the University may monitor and/or review any user ID, use
r activity, 
files, and data on the University systems and network, ﬁfreezeﬂ or remove access to any 
files or data which the University reasonably believes violates User Obligations in 
accordance with applicable University policies.  
  Responsible Use of Com
puting and Networking. Users may not obstruct any others™ 
work by using unnecessarily large amounts of system resources (such as disk space, 
output devices, CPU time, and network bandwidth) or deliberately causing any machine 
to crash or shut down. Given t
he finite capacity of available systems, Users must be 
responsible in their use of resources so as not to interfere unreasonably with the activity 
of other users.
  Responsible Use of Accounts. Users may not give away or share any userid and 

password, for an
y reason, or under any circumstances. Users may not use someone 
else™s account, either with or without permission. Individual accounts cannot be 
transferred to or used by another individual. Users also agree that attempts to gain 
access to any account not 
belonging to them or to a system on which they are not an 
authorized user will be treated as a violation of University policy, and their computing 
privileges may be revoked.
  Responsible Use of Bandwidth. The University of Miami is committed to providing 
adequate network capacity for the academic and administrative computing needs of the 
University community. As desktop computers and servers have become a part of 
everyday life on campus, the volume of information transmitted through the University 
network ha
s grown significantly. The growth in network use has increased the need for 
responsible use of the network resources, as excessive network traffic can interfere with 
the academic and administrative functions of the University. Members of the University 
com
munity must employ good judgment in the use of the network. If the network is 
hindered by servers or computers using excessive bandwidth, those machines will be 

disconnected.
  Respect for Copyright. Distribution of material copyrighted by another violates f
ederal 
law unless the distribution is with permission or license, or constitutes fair use of the 

 Acceptable Use of Info Tech Resources by Students
 Policy
 3 copyrighted material. In accordance with the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the 
University, once notified of alleged copyright violations, will disconnect f
rom the network 
the server or computer of the individual(s) involved. The individual who is distributing the 

copyrighted materials is responsible for any copyright infringement.
  Respect for System Security. It is the responsibility of every User to protect
 the integrity 
and security of the data in personal accounts. Each User must accept responsibility for 
all matters pertaining to the proper use of personal accounts; this includes choosing safe 
passwords and ensuring that file protections are set correctly
.  Respect for the Ownership of Proprietary Software. Users must not make or use 
unauthorized copies of proprietary software, even when that software is not physically 
protected against copying.
  Users are given access to the University of Miami™s computing 
systems and network 
because they are tools to help them meet their academic goals. This access, however, is 
a privilege, not a right. Preventing others from fulfilling their academic or business
-related 
goals by using the system irresponsibly is not permit
ted.
 B. Examples of usage that could result in disciplinary action include, but are not limited to:
  Using computing or network resources for the purpose of harassing another individual or 

group
  Using computing or network resources for a commercial purpose
  Sen
ding electronic chain mail or mass unsolicited mail
  Maintaining a server that contains files for which you do not have proper permission to 

store or redistribute
  Altering e
-mail or Usenet headers to hide the identity of the sender/poster or to attribute 
the e-mail or posting to someone other than the sender/poster
  Using talk, write or IRC (inter
-relay chat) resources in an abusive or frivolous manner
  Accessing or transmitting obscene material in violation of federal, state or local law. 
  Posting inappropria
te material to Usenet or a Web site
  Using large amounts of disk space to store files not related to your academic pursuits
  Excessive use of programs for non academic purposes in a manner that taxes the 
system™s resources.
  Attempting to gain access to any c
omputing, network, academic or business resources 
which you are not authorized to use, including those of third parties. 
  Using server resources to engage in activities in violation of federal, state or local law or 

other University policies.
 The Universit
y of Miami will hold responsible the owner of any account through which security 
violations or irresponsible use occurs or individuals who inappropriately obtain and/or make 

use
 of another User™s account or password. The University of Miami also reserves t
he right to 
withhold computing privileges from those who do not abide by the letter or intent of this policy 

document. Violations of this policy by the students referenced below shall be referred to the 
following offices for appropriate disciplinary action
: Undergraduate:
 Dean of Students
 Graduate:
 Dean of the Graduate School
 Law:
 Dean of Students
 Medical:
 Dean of Student Affairs
 
