91.004:  University Credentials
Status:
Approved on August 27, 2015
Signatures and dates 
on archival copy
Effective:
when approved
 Initiated by:
Matthew Dalton
Director of Information Security
 Endorsed by:
Stephen Golding
Vice President for Finance and Administration
 Approved by:
Roderick J. McDavis
President
 OverviewCredentials issued at Ohio university are for the sole purpose of accessing university resources. They
are often the first line of attack, and the last line of defense, in the protection of these resources.
Because of this, they must be used with care, and adequately protected. 
This policy outlines those
protections that must be observed by individuals, technical staff, and systems using credentials at the
university and recommendations for their protection.
A.Individuals
An individual to whom credentials have been issued has certain responsibilities in the care of those
credentials. 
The following behaviors should be observed to reduce the risk of compromise to your
credentials.
B.Keep your credentials, secret questions, and their answers private and known only to you.
1.
Use unique credentials (username and password combination) for Ohio university that are
different from any other service or website.
2.Your credentials are for your personal authentication to university resources, and should not be
used as a means to provision services to other users.
3.If you suspect that your credentials have been compromised, change your credentials and
questions immediately and inform the information security office by e-mail to 
security@ohio.edu
.4.Credentials
Credentials exist to ensure that the individual gaining access to university resources through an account
is the same individual to whom the access was given. 
The university acknowledges that not all accounts
carry the same level of risk. Therefore the level of rigor and complexity requirements that are applied
to ensuring the security of the credentials will be in line with the risk which a compromise of that
account would present to the university or its community.
The university data stewards (see part (D) of policy 
93.001) will review these complexity requirements
on an annual basis. 
Any changes that need to take place between reviews will be identified by the
university information security officer, and presented to the university data stewards for approval.
Actual authentication complexity requirements will be captured in the "Authentication Credentials
Complexity Standard," which strives to relate the strength of the credential with the risk that a
compromise of that account would present to the university.
C.Information system owners
It is the owner or manager of information services' responsibility to ensure that they comply with this
policy and its associated complexity requirements. 
The recommended method is integrating with OIT
authentication services and appropriately mapping individuals' accounts to the correct risk levels. 
Prior
to integrating with OIT authentication services, permission must be obtained from the university
information security officer and the chief information officer or their delegates. 
If a separate user
credential is issued, the service owner must instruct their users to use different credentials than are
used with their OhioID.
D.Authentication servers
University authentication services are limited to those run and maintained by the office of information
technology. 
It is the responsibility of the chief information officer or appointed delegate to ensure that
the following are adhered to by all systems that perform authentication functions.
E.Only those systems that are required and approved by the chief information officer or appointed
delegate may store passwords in any form. 
Those that store these passwords must store them in
a cryptographically secure format.
1.Authentication systems must encrypt password at all times during transmission.
2.Authentication systems must be housed in the university datacenter or another approved
location.
3.Authentication systems must be administered by OIT.
4.
ReviewersProposed revisions of this policy should be reviewed by:
1. University Data Stewards
2. Information System Owners
3. Information Technology Governance Council
4. Information Technology Student Focus Group
5. Classified Senate
6. Administrative Senate
7. Faculty Senate
Forms, References, and History
Authentication systems must be hardened in accordance with NIST 800-123.
5.Administrators accessing authentication systems must use an approved multi-factor
authentication to access.
6.Forms
There are no forms that are specific to this policy.
1.ReferencesThe following items are relevant to this policy:
2.Policy 
93.001, "Data Classification."
a.NIST 800-123 is available online at 
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-
123/SP800-123.pdf
.b.The Authentication Credentials Complexity Standard is available online, linked through
https://www.ohio.edu/oit/accounts/passwords
.c.History
Draft versions of this policy that were circulated for review, their cover memos, their forms, and
Reviewers' comments on them are available on the password-protected Review site, at
3.
Administrative Policy Manual
 Andrea Swart revised this page 
(https://www.ohio.edu/policy/91-004.html)
 on February 24, 2017.
policy@ohio.edu
Ohio University   |   Athens, OH 45701   |   740.593.1000
Copyright © 2017 
Ohio University
.   All rights reserved.
https://www.ohio.edu/policy2/91-004/
.There have been no prior versions of this policy.

