By signing this document, you acknowledge and consent to the following rules of conduct and policies when accessing 
the United States Military Academy (USMA) network, to include the Internet:
 
1.In Accord
ance With
 (IAW)
 Army Regulation (AR) 25
-2 para 4
-5m(7), ﬁYOU ARE ACCESSING A U.S. GOVERNMENT
(USG) INFORMATION SYSTEM (IS) THAT IS PROVIDED FOR USG
-AUTHORIZED USE ONLY. By using this IS (which
includes any device attached to this IS), you consent to the following conditions: The USG routinely intercepts and
monitors communications on this IS for purposes including, but not limited to, penetration testing, COMSEC

monitoring, network operations and defense, personnel misconduct (PM), law enforcement (LE), and

counterintelli
gence (CI) investigations. At any time, the USG may inspect and seize data stored on this IS.
Communications using, or data stored on, this IS are not private, are subject to routine monitoring, interception,
and search, and may be disclosed or used for an
y USG
-authorized purpose. This IS includes security measures (e.g.,
authentication and access controls) to protect USG interests
--not for your personal benefit or privacy.

Notwithstanding the above, using this IS does not constitute consent to PM, LE, or C
I investigative searching or
monitoring of the content of privileged communications, or work product, related to personal representation or

services by attorneys, psychotherapists, or clergy, and their assistants. Such communications and work product are

private and confidential.
ﬂ 
See also United States Corps of Cadets (USCC) Regulations and policies, USMA
Regulations and policies, Army Regulation (AR) 25
-1, AR25
-2, the Joint Ethics Regulation and the USMA Acceptable
Use Addendum. In general these reference
s remind users to do nothing that is illegal, immoral, or unethical.
2.This paragraph applies to 
USMA
™s Cadets.
 Cadet
s™ class
-specific
 laptops, accessories, and tablets bought by cadets
are personal equipment
 that 
USMA authorizes 
to 
connect
 to 
USMA
™s
 Defense
 Research and Engineering Network
(DREN)
. The authorization has several conditions:
a.USMA registers the device
; where feasible
 (e.g., laptop)
, the device must 
use a 
USMA provided
 IS ‚image,™
;USMA retain
s remote administrative rights and prerogatives to suc
h systems while the cadet is enrolled at
USMA
; formal exceptions to Army policies regarding personal equipment on USG networks
.b.Upon 
cadets
™ graduation or separation from USMA, 
cadets™ laptops, tables, and accessories
 c
ease to have
any permission to conne
ct 
to the USMA DREN. Cadets will receive an up
-to-date non
-government image for
their laptop prior to their departure from West Point.
3.There is no 
blanket 
authorization to connect personal equipment (e.g., gaming systems, phones, computers
,tablets
) 
to the DREN
. 
USMA provides 
exceptions to policy and other 
authorizations when requested through chains
of command to the CIO/G6 and approved by the CIO/G6 or Superintendent.
4.You acknowledge that in the event of a classified information spillage, the syste
m(s) 
with the classified data are
subject to seizure and, as feasible, forensic wiping
 to remove the classified data and return, as feasible,
 of the
sanitized device(s).
5.USMA will treat u
nauthorized
 devices discovered on th
e DREN 
as an active threat and
 wi
ll investigate
 and
remediate
. This includes devices within the physical jurisdiction of USMA that are interfering with USMA™s
network(s) (e.g., 
WiFi hotspots in barracks, other radio frequency 
(RF) 
emitters 
degrading USMA™s use of RF for
network operations
).6.You are responsible for understanding and abiding with what USMA has authorized (and not authorized) for
usage/behavior. Violations of this AUP
 and any addendums, USMA
, Army, DoD, or Joint regulations/policies, may
result in consequences including: loss
 of network access, loss of administrative privileges on government managed
system(s), 
loss of access to network 
provided service(s); civilian or military administrative action; civilian or military
criminal action.

