Custom Search
Policy Code: 
1395Approval Authority: 
Vice Chancellor
Policy Type: 
Divisional Policy
Policy Owner: 
Academic Affairs
Responsible Office: 
Information Technology Services - 828.251.6404
Administration
Web Resource Management
 (https://administration.unca.edu/print/137)
Purpose:This document explains the University policy concerning the responsible management
of the UNC Asheville Web pages that have broad impact to both internal and external
audiences.
Scope:By the technical nature of the World Wide Web (Web), issues of distributive and
shared maintenance of these tools have broad institutional impact both internally and
externally for the University. Official Web pages and applications address campus-wide
data management needs at the division, department and unit level. This policy
provides the structure necessary to assist the university community in the design,
review, implementation and support of the Official Web Presence at UNC Asheville.
Policy:Each division or departmental unit will assume responsibility for its Web content.
Revision History

Departmental units will designate a 
Web Custodian
 for the Web content owned by
that department.
The Division of Alumni and Development will assume responsibility for communicating
through the publication of standards and guidelines the technical standards to which
divisions and departments should adhere.
A Web Committee
 made up of representatives from Public Information, Library Web
Services and Information Technology Services form the core of the committee with
rotation of other University areas in and out as relevant to current concerns and
direction objectives. The Web Committee assists in setting direction for Web design,
addresses concerns where standards of UNC Asheville's official Web presence may be
out of compliance, addresses concerns and suggestions by the UNC Asheville
community. Included in upholding standards will be review and possible removal of
the following:
1. 1. 1. Outdated Web content
2. Web content that discloses information that poses a risk to the University
3. Web content in violation of University policies or state and federal statutes
The Web Committee will inform Web Custodians and Departmental units of necessary
regulations that must be followed to insure institutional security and comply with
governmental regulations.
De
!
nitions:
Official UNC Asheville Web Pages
 are any Web pages that represent a department,
program or office that provides information in the course of regular university
business and is linked directly or indirectly (at any level) from the UNC Asheville home
page. Official UNC Asheville Web Pages include those pages whose content focuses on
conferences, lectures or other special events that are officially sponsored by UNC
Asheville or by UNC Asheville departments, programs or units.
Unofficial UNC Asheville Web Pages
 and personal Web pages may be published by
faculty, students, staff, and student clubs and organizations. Unofficial Web Pages may
not carry the official UNC Asheville template set and are subject to removal from the
server.

Official Web Presence
 is the view of UNC Asheville from a marketing and
publications point of view.
A Web Custodian
 is a University faculty or staff member who has direct
responsibility over the accessibility, content, and currency of UNC Asheville Web
pages. Students may not be Web Custodians; however the Web Custodian may
delegate that responsibility to students.
HELPFUL LINKS
Strategic Plan
Facts & Figures
University Advancement
Finance
Athletics
Human Resources
LATEST NEWSOLLIÕs Reuter Center Singers Celebrate 20th Anniversary (Again!) with Nov.
18 Concert at Biltmore United Methodist Church
LEARN MORE
CONNECT    Chancellor's Office, CPO 1400
One University Heights
Asheville, NC 28804
Office: 828.251.6500
Fax:  828.251.6495

Email: 
chanoffice@unca.edu

