Information Technology
WMU Server Registration Policy
PURPOSEThis policy has been developed in the interest of system and data security and
establishes rules for allowing servers to access the Internet.
SCOPE
This policy is intended to help prevent malicious users from accessing
unregistered or unintentionally installed servers. Many newer software
products install servers on machines, possibly without the aministrator's or
user's knowledge.
POLICY STATEMENTS
All unregistered servers are restricted to the internal WMU network,
WMUnet. That network is commonly called the intranet. Only registered
servers are allowed to participate in the Internet. Intranet servers will
continue to operate on campus without interruption. Test and development
servers should be registered but they will not be granted access from the
Internet. Users requiring access to these systems from off-campus must use
VPN services.
Servers which require access to and/or from outside the Internet must:
Be approved by the requesting user's department or division leader.
Have a documented, demonstrated need not met by an existing server.
Successfully pass security scans performed by information technology.
Be operated in a secure manner. This includes installing patches and
upgrades in a timely manner.
Comply with 
E-Commerce review committee standards
.O!ice of Information Technology
Western Michigan University
Kalamazoo MI 49008-5206 USA
(269) 387-5430
Server registration requirements
In order to register a server, the following information is required:
Name, phone number(s), campus address, and wmich.edu email address of
the University employees who are the primary and backup administrators
responsible for the maintenance of the server hardware and software.
Physical location, name, and IP address of the server.
Operating system and version of the server.
Server software version.
Server support software.
Applications being accessed by remote users and/or applications
interacting with the Internet.
Classify data stored or accessed.
Responsibility of server administrators
Keep current with security patches. Evaluate and expeditiously apply
within 60 days.
Maintain operating system at level recommended by vendor.
Properly restrict access to sensitive information and comply with WMU
data policies.
Ensure that an administrator, or a designate, be available during working
hours for problem resolution.
Provide a current list of contacts (with emergency phone numbers) that can
be reached in critical situations during non-business hours.
To deactivate a server, or to turn ports off, send email to 
oit-
serverregistration@wmich.edu
 with the server IP address and ports to
remove.
For servers containing University mission critical or protected information,
having an approved SSL certificate, no self-signed certs, installed is required.
Self-signed certificates must be removed from the server. It is recommended
the server be physically located in the information technology machine room
in the University Computing Center.
JUSTIFICATION

Unrestricted servers could pose serious security threats to WMUnet. The
implementation of a server registration policy is intended to minimize the
security risk and data exposure while continuing to provide needed,
uninterrupted access.
ENFORCEMENT
Server administrators will be subscribed to a WMU email list that is used to
distribute important security related information.
Server administrators are expected to read, and when appropriate, act on
information relative to server security issues in a timely manner. In critical
situations, it may become necessary to contact server administrators or
backup administrators at any time. In the event they cannot be contacted, it
may become necessary to power off the server or disconnect the server
from the network without warning.
Patches must be installed within 60 days of first notification
of vulnerabilities identified as "critical" or "high".  Failure to maintain
servers at current security patches will result in blocking off-campus access
and/or removal from the network.
A list of all registered servers will be maintained and made available to the
registered users upon request.
Unregistered servers must be configured to use the default port, and access
to them will be blocked at the firewall.
If a server is found running on a non-standard port, the machine will be
removed from WMUnet without notice.
Server administrators will be contacted on a regular basis to ensure that
their server registration information is up to date. If an administrator fails
to respond to these inquiries, it may result in their server being
disconnected from the network or being blocked from access.
A server registration form
 is provided. You will be taken to IT Direct service
management system. Bronco NetID and password required.
A server deregistration form
 is provided. You will be taken to IT Direct
service management system. Bronco NetID and password required. 
A digital certificate request form
  is provided. You will be taken to IT Direct
service management system. Bronco NetID and password required.
A digital certificate renewal form
 is provided. You will be taken to IT Direct
service management system. Bronco NetID and password required.

DOCUMENT ACTION
Revised May 2014
Revised Jan. 2013
  Western Michigan University
Kalamazoo MI 49008-5200 USA
(269) 387-1000Contact WMU
© 2018 All rights reserved.

