Information Technology
WMU Telephone Instrument
Relocation Requirements
PURPOSE AND SCOPE
These requirements involve the relocation* of University-installed Voice over
IP telephone instruments.
University-supplied telephone instruments and network ports are provided
by the Office of Information Technology for University business
communications and to serve the resident students on campus. In addition,
they are an integral component of the campus emergency response system by
providing 9-1-1 direct dial to the WMU Public Safety dispatch center.
WMU Public Safety is provided with the installation locations of each
telephone instrument, whether a traditional PBX telephone or a VoIP
instrument. While it is technically possible to relocate* a VoIP telephone from
one active jack to another, doing so will result in Public Safety having
erroneous location data for the telephone, with the possible consequence of
not being able to locate a caller in the case of an emergency.
REQUIREMENTS
WMU telephone users are not permitted to move a VoIP telephone
instrument from the jack where it was originally installed without first
contacting the OIT telecommunications office. If it is determined that a spare,
active, compatible network jack is available and can be identified, OIT can
arrange for a customer-initiated move without charge. If relocation* requires
a customer visit by a technician, prevailing service rates will be charged.
If telephone users do not know if the telephone is a VoIP phone, they need to
contact OIT 
before 
relocating a phone.
JUSTIFICATION
O!ice of Information Technology
Western Michigan University
Kalamazoo MI 49008-5206 USA
(269) 387-5430
It is essential that WMU Public Safety be able to locate any 9-1-1 caller
quickly and accurately. WMU does not currently possess the technology to
either prevent or track the unauthorized relocation* of VoIP telephones,
except through periodic audits, or reports by WMU Public Safety.
If a telephone instrument is relocated* without updating its location in the
telecommunications management system, WMU Public Safety will be unable
to locate that caller in case of an emergency.
ENFORCEMENT
Any person found to be in violation of this policy will be subject to
appropriate consequences, including but not limited to disciplinary action as
described by current University requirements and/or applicable collective
bargaining agreement.
If a customer telephone is discovered to have been relocated* without the
knowledge and consent of OIT telecommunication, OIT will not be
responsible for, nor will OIT cover, any costs associated with the
unauthorized relocation*, including applicable service charges. An individual
who relocates* a VoIP telephone without the knowledge and consent of OIT
telecommunications may be personally liable for any claims arising out of the
unauthorized relocation*.
*Relocate -- For the purpose of this document relocation/relocate/relocated
refers to the movement of a VoIP instrument from one network port/data
jack to another network port/data jack.
DOCUMENT ACTION
Draft: November 3, 2015
Presented to Faculty Senate AITC: December 8, 2015
Reviewed by Legal Council: January 19, 2016
Reviewed by WMU Public Safety: January 20, 2016
Reviewed by Information Technology Executive Advisory Board: January 25,
2016Reviewed by Provost's Council: March 1, 2016
Western Michigan University
Kalamazoo MI 49008-5200 USA
(269) 387-1000Contact WMU

© 2018 All rights reserved.

