Information Technology
WMUnet Acceptable Use Policy
PURPOSEThis policy sets forth the regulations for the use of Western Michigan
University's network, known as WMUnet.
SCOPE
This policy applies to everyone using network services of Western Michigan
University, whether on campus, at regional sites, or remotely through other
internet service providers.
POLICY STATEMENTS
Network services and wiring may not be modified or extended beyond the
area of their intended use. This applies to all network wiring, hardware,
and jacks.
The network may not be used to provide Internet access to anyone outside
of the University community for any purposes. WMU-specific or
commercially obtained network resources may not be retransmitted
outside of the University community.
The network is a shared resource. Thus, network use or applications which
inhibit or interfere with the use of the network by others are not permitted.
(For example, using an IP address not registered to you, or applications
which use an unusually high portion of the bandwidth for extended periods
of time, thus inhibiting the use of the network by others, are not
permitted). Use of the network must comply with all University's policies.
Forgery or other misrepresentation of one's identity via electronic or any
other form of communication is a violation. Prosecution under State and
Federal laws may also apply.O!ice of Information Technology
Western Michigan University
Kalamazoo MI 49008-5206 USA
(269) 387-5430
Only those with an active Bronco NetID and password may use Western
Michigan University network services, or those who gain access on campus
through University-authorized access services such as EduRoam or WMU
Guest access.You are 
not allowed to use your connection to:
Run a business or organization for profit or non-profit purposes.
Monitor data on the network by means of any monitoring or "sniffing"
software.Provide a pass-through site to other campus hosts, provide remote login
(e.g. telnet access) on your computer for others than yourself.
Set up a router to provide wireless connections.
Connect hubs, switches, routers or wireless access points on the network.
Provide information to others on the Network such as newsfeeds,
Anonymous FTP site, BBS, UUCP site, web hosting, etc.
Harass, libel, or slander anyone or fraudulent representations.
Copy or transmit copyrighted material.
Post or send obscene, pornographic, sexually explicit, or harassing material
as defined by applicable federal and state law.
Post or send material that tends to disrupt the educational environment of
the University, interfere with the rights of others or their ability to use
University information technology resources or access University
programs, or violates applicable state or federal law.
JUSTIFICATION
The Office of Information Technology at Western Michigan University
provides wired and wireless connection services in support of the educational
mission of the University. It is the responsibility of each person utilizing these
services to use them appropriately and in compliance with all University, City,
County, State, and Federal laws and regulations.
ENFORCEMENT
The Office of Information Technology reserves the right to terminate any
network connection without notice should it be determined that network
traffic generated from said connection drastically inhibits or interferes with
the use of the network by others.

Failure to comply with this policy may result in termination of network
services and loss of computing resource privileges. In addition, any person
found to be in violation of this policy will be subject to appropriate
disciplinary action as defined by current University policy and bargaining
agreements.
REFERENCERules for use of computing resources at Western Michigan University
DOCUMENT ACTION 
Revised: February, 2017
Western Michigan University
Kalamazoo MI 49008-5200 USA
(269) 387-1000Contact WMU
© 2018 All rights reserved.

